
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
Job 
 Vacancies
 
 
- Vacancies
 
 
 
 
- How 
 to apply 
 
 
Sales 
 & Management
 
 
- Management 
 Trainees
 Reference: mt/www/hhh
 
 You have a minimum of 18 months experience in personal lines insurance, 
 are well presented and have a good standard of education. You must 
 be enthusiastic, dedicated, capable of motivating and managing people 
 and able to work under pressure. In return, the successful candidate 
 will enjoy an extremely competitive package plus performance related 
 bonuses.
 
 
 
- Insurance 
 Sales Advisors: 
 
You're bright, 
 ambitious and self motivated with a proven background in personal 
 lines insurance or retail sales. You are now ready to take on an 
 exciting role in a company where career progress is rapid and where 
 we prefer to promote from within. We offer a competitive package 
 plus the opportunity to maximise your potential.
 
 
 
- Customer Service 
 Advisors in Central Bristol (part time available)
 Reference: cs/www/564 
 
We want bright 
 people who can meet targets and work in a motor claims team delivering 
 excellent customer service. You'll be talking over the phone to 
 customers, listening to their requirements, providing advice and 
 helping them with their claims. To be successful, you'll need to 
 be a good communicator with customer service and keyboard skills. 
 In return we offer a competitive salary plus benefits.
 
 
 
- Sales Advisor 
 - Bournemouth
 Reference: SA/www/542 
 
Hill House Hammond 
 is one the of the UK's leading providers of personal lines insurance 
 and we're now fast expanding in the Business insurance world with 
 over one million satisfied customers nationwide. Our people play 
 a key part in this success and as we're continually expanding we 
 need additional people to join our team in Bournemouth.
 
 By being Customer focused we aim to deliver the best, providing 
 our customers with what they want when they want it- in a helpful, 
 efficient and friendly manner.
 
 Dealing with different kinds of businesses with different needs 
 you'll take more time getting closer to the customer and building 
 a long-term relationship. The work varies widely answering all kinds 
 of questions and meeting all kinds of challenges. Call Centre or 
 sales experience is desirable although we will provide all the IT 
 training you will need to succeed.
 
 
- Motor & 
 Household Underwriters in Central Bristol
 Reference: UW/www/555 
 
We're looking 
 for enthusiasm, strong communication skills and some knowledge of 
 household/motor insurance. You'll be dealing with incoming calls 
 from our network of 240 branches, building up a rapport with colleagues 
 and handling a range of enquiries. It's a busy environment that 
 calls for a flexible individual with the confidence to make important 
 decisions on behalf of our panel of insurers and the ability to 
 use your own initiative to meet the different challenges that occur 
 daily.
 
You'll need 
 at least two years' experience in a similar position or have a background 
 of working within a broker environment.
 
 
 
- Accounts - 
 Central Bristol
 Reference: AC/www/550
 
 Hill House Hammond has a growing portfolio of market leading trends. 
 We're driving our vast range of products through a multi-distribution 
 network that includes over 200 branches, call centres, the Internet 
 and more.
 
 But to ensure the smooth running of the operation it takes talented 
 people like you.
 From overseeing the cheque run process and following up queries to 
 banking funds and reconciling accounts-this is your chance to move 
 your accounting skills into a more customer focused role.
 
 With good numeracy skills, lots of initiative and the ability to to 
 priorities your workload, you'll be a natural communicator and someone 
 who can bring the human touch to a busy, energetic environment.
 
 
 
- Commercial 
 Broker -Based in Bristol
 Reference: CB/www/512 
 
Our newly created 
 Commercial Broking unit has an exciting opportunity for a professional 
 with strong Commercial Insurance experience, to carry out new business 
 and renewal broking on behalf of the company Account Executives. 
 Offering technical recommendations and reviews and assisting in 
 the preparation of client presentation reports, you will use your 
 5+ years worth of commercial insurance experience to help establish 
 and develop effective Insurer relationships. Ideally you will be 
 able to demonstrate experience within a Commercial Insurance Broker 
 environment, but multi-skilled candidates from an insurance background 
 will also be considered. In addition, you'll show us you have a 
 good working knowledge of Property and Accident, Liability, Motor 
 Fleet, Engineering and Marine insurance. Being ACII qualified or 
 working towards it would also be a distinct advantage.
 
This role calls 
 for someone with strong negotiation skills who is driven by getting 
 the right results. Importantly, your friendly and enthusiastic attitude 
 will mean your positive outlook makes you a welcome member of the 
 team.
 
 
 
- Business Insurance 
 Training Officer - Based in Bristol
 Reference: TO/www/512 
 
This key role 
 offers you the chance to have a positive impact on the quality of 
 training and expertise of our teams. Reporting to the Training Manager 
 you will be responsible for the design and delivery of the Division's 
 induction programmes, IT and technical training. We will look to 
 you to give the teams the confidence and ability to learn and develop 
 new skills, through clear and effective communication. It calls 
 for a person who is flexible, and given the nature of the role, 
 highly motivated and enthusiastic. With a sound knowledge of commercial 
 insurance and exceptional presentation skills, you will also be 
 personally committed to your own ongoing development. Although this 
 post is based in Bristol, you will be expected to deliver training 
 courses at our Commercial and Call Centres across the UK.
 
 
- Telephone 
 Advisors - Central Bristol & Moulton Park, Northampton
 Reference: TA/www/540 (Bristol) or TA/www/525 (Northampton) 
 
You won't be 
 given the cold shoulder by customers at Hill House Hammond - because 
 you only deal with incoming calls. It's by offering friendly service 
 and competitive prices that we've built up a great reputation and 
 become one of the UK's leading suppliers of insurance. 
 
When you join 
 our growing team, we'll help you develop the skills you need to 
 handle enquiries and offer advice. You'll build up a rapport with 
 our customers and guide them to choosing the right insurance policy. 
 We're not looking for previous experience in insurance - we need 
 friendly, warm personalities who have the ability to communicate 
 effectively. If you're confident and helpful, we'll give you the 
 right tools to develop an excellent career.
 
 
 
 
 
How to apply
 
Please send your 
 CV in confidence to: 
 
 
Maureen Phipps
 Recruitment Manager
 Hill House Hammond Ltd
 Hubbard Wing
 Leigh Court
 Abbots Leigh
 Bristol
 BS8 3RA
 
 
Or e-mail: jobs@hhh.co.uk
 
Warning - 
 any details you submit will not be secure whilst being transmitted across 
 the Internet.
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 © 2002 Hill House Hammond
	
