
Cyber Home Insurance Policy
Cyber Home Insurance Policy
Policy Wording
Contents
Definitions 
 
Buildings Cover 
 
Contents Cover 
 
All Risks Cover 
 
Specified items 
 
Unspecified valuables, personal effects and clothing
 
Sports equipment 
 
Computer equipment, sound equipment and portable television sets
 
Pedal cycles 
 
Money, credit cards 
 
General Conditions 
 
General Exclusions 
 
What to do if you have a complaint
 
Definitions 
We have set out below definitions of certain
words or phrases that are repeated throughout the Policy. Wherever
these words or phrases appear they will be in bold type.
If any of these words or phrases appear in an endorsement
to this Policy, they will have the same meaning.
Buildings
The home plus landlord's fixtures and fittings,
tennis courts, swimming pools, central heating oil or gas tanks,
septic tanks, paved terraces, patios, paths, walls, gates, fences
and hedges all on the same site.
The home, unless we describe it differently,
is built of brick, stone or concrete and roofed with slates, tiles,
concrete, asphalt, metal, sheets or slabs made of mineral ingredients
which do not burn. Up to 33% of the total roof area may be built
of flat felt or bitumen roofing.
Buildings does not include:
- Television and radio aerials, including externally fixed satellite
receiving dishes and their fittings and masts.
Claim payment
The amount we agree to pay you for
any claim you make which is covered under this
Policy. We may choose to settle the claim by paying cash,
replacing the item or repairing it to its original state. The
maximum amount we will pay for any one claim
is the sum insured for the items shown in the schedule
(unless we state otherwise).
Contents
Household goods, personal possessions and clothing and
other items in the home which belong to you,
your family, or people who are your guests at
the home or for which you are
responsible, including money.
Contents also includes television and radio aerials, including
externally fixed satellite receiving dishes and their fittings
and masts while fixed to the buildings of your
home.
Contents does not include the following:
- Motor vehicles (except for domestic gardening equipment),
motorcycles, caravans, trailers, or any accessories to these items.
- Pets and livestock.
- Landlord's fixtures and fittings.
- Any property which is more specifically insured by this or
any other policy.
- Securities, certificates, or documents of any kind except
those we define as money.
- Contact or corneal lenses.
- Any property held or used for any business or professional
purposes.
Credit cards
Credit, cheque, bankers and cash debit cards which belong to
you or your family. 
Endorsement
A variation in the terms (or a change in details) of your Policy.
Home
The private house, self-contained flat or bungalow at the address
and including any garage or outbuilding used for domestic purposes
(as shown in the schedule).
Indemnity value
The costs of replacing items insured less a deduction for wear
and tear or loss of value.
Index-linked
The sum insured will be index-linked. This means that the
amounts are linked to the following indices and each month
we will adjust the sum insured (as shown in your schedule)
according to those indices.
For buildings the index we use
is the House Rebuilding Cost Index produced by the Royal Institution
of Chartered Surveyors or another appropriate index.
For contents and all risks the index
we use is the Government's General Index of Retail Prices
or another appropriate index.
We will not make a charge for index-linking during
the period of insurance but each time your insurance is
renewed we will recalculate your premium on the
adjusted sum insured.
Money
Personal money kept in the home by
you or your family for private purposes.
Money includes the following:
- Current coin or bank notes (which do not form part of a collection),
cheques and travellers cheques.
- Postal or money orders and current postage
stamps.
- National Savings Stamps and Certificates and Premium Bonds.
- Trading stamps including television licence stamps and those
bought for gas, electricity or other bills and luncheon vouchers.
- Gift vouchers or tokens.
Period of insurance
This is the length of time the Policy lasts as shown in the schedule.
It also includes any extra period for which we accept
your premium.
Personal effects and clothing
Articles of personal use worn or carried by you or
your family. 
Replacement value
- For buildings - the cost of rebuilding the
home and buildings including an allowance
for architects' and surveyors' fees, site clearance costs, propping
up or supporting parts of your buildings and
meeting any Local Authority requirements.
- For contents - the cost of replacing the
insured contents of the home with new items of
the same kind.
- For All Risks sub-sections 1-4 the cost of replacing the items
insured with new items of the same kind.
Schedule
The schedule shows details of the Policyholder,
the property insured, the period of insurance and the Covers
which apply. The schedule is part of the Policy
and can be found inside the front cover. We will issue a new
schedule when the Policy is altered.
Personal effects and clothing does not include valuables or money.
Unoccupied
- Where the home is not furnished for permanent
occupation; or
- where the home is furnished but has not been
lived in for more than 30 consecutive days.
Valuables
Articles of gold, silver, or jewellery, precious metals, furs,
curios, pictures or other works of art, clocks, watches, photographic
equipment, and stamp or coin collections which belong to
you or your family. 
Valuables does not include items more specifically insured
by this or any other policy. 
We, us
The Independent Insurance Company Limited.
You, Policyholder
The person or people named in the schedule. 
Your family
Your spouse, children, parents and other relatives who permanently
live with you.
Buildings Cover
Your Policy schedule shows if this section applies.
Basic cover
What is covered
We will pay for loss of or damage to your
buildings during the period of insurance
caused by the following:
- Fire and smoke.
- Explosion.
- Lightning and thunderbolt.
- Earthquake.
- Riot, civil commotion, strikes and labour disturbances.
- Aircraft and other aerial devices or anything dropped or falling
from them.
- Storm or flood.
- Theft or attempted theft.
- Escape of water or oil from any fixed domestic water or heating
installation.
- Collision by any vehicle or animal.
- Breakage or collapse of television or radio aerials, externally
fixed satellite receiving dishes, their fittings or masts.
- Malicious acts or vandalism.
- Water freezing in any fixed domestic water or heating installation.
- Falling trees, telegraph poles or lamp posts or any parts
of them.
- Subsidence, heave or landslip of the site on which your buildings
stand.
What is not covered
The first £50 of any claim under basic cover 1 to 14 unless
shown differently in the schedule.
See 1 above 
- Loss or damage from any gradually-operating cause.
See 7 above 
- Loss or damage by frost.
- Loss or damage to fences, gates and hedges unless your
home is damaged at the same time.
See 8. above
- Loss or damage while your home is unoccupied.
See 9 above
- Loss or damage to the installation itself.
- Loss or damage if your home is left unoccupied.
See 10 above
- Loss or damage caused by any insect, vermin, bird or domestic
pet.
See 11 above
- Loss or damage to the dish or aerial itself.
See 12 above
- Loss or damage by any person lawfully in your home.
- Loss or damage while your home is unoccupied.
See 13 above
- Loss or damage caused by corrosion or wear and tear.
- Loss or damage if your home is left unoccupied.
See 14 above
- The cost of removing and disposing of them.
- Loss or damage to fences, gates and hedges.
See 15 above
- Loss or damage caused by:
- river or coastal erosion;
- new structures bedding down;
- newly made-up ground settling;
- normal settlement, shrinkage or expansion;
- demolition, structural alteration or repair;
- defective design; or
- inadequate foundations which do not meet building regulations
current at the time of construction.
- Loss or damage to solid floor slabs or damage resulting from
their movement unless the foundations beneath the external walls
of the home are destroyed or damaged at the same
time and from the same cause.
- Loss or damage to swimming pools, tennis courts, central heating
oil or gas tanks, paved terraces, patios, paths, drives, boundary
and garden walls, fences and gates and septic tanks, unless the
home is damaged at the same time and from the same cause.
- Loss or damage to the buildings if they are
covered by a NHBC Certificate of Insurance.
- The first amount of each claim as shown in the schedule.
Your Policy schedule shows "Replacement
plus accidental damage" if this Cover applies.
Accidental damage to buildings
What is covered
We will pay for accidental damage to your buildings.
What is not covered
- Any loss or damage caused by:
- any other event in the Basic cover;
- any kind of rot, woodworm, moth, insect or vermin, domestic
pet, frost or weather condition or any other gradually-operating
cause;
- deliberate acts by you or your family;
- mechanical or electrical faults, breakdown or failure;
- faulty workmanship, defective design or use of defective materials;
or
- wear and tear, settlement or shrinkage.
- Loss or damage while your home or any part
is lent or let.
- The costs of routine maintenance or normal costs of decoration.
- The first £50 of any claim under this extension.
Protection from inflation
This section is index-linked. 
After a claim for loss or damage which is covered under this section,
the sum insured will continue to be index-linked
while the buildings are being repaired or reinstated
as long as you take all reasonable steps to make
sure the work is completed without delay.
In addition to the Basic cover, we will cover
the following:
What is covered
1. Additional expenses 
- After a claim which is insured under the Basic cover,
we will pay the following expenses or losses which
you have incurred with our permission: Architects', surveyors',
legal and other fees to rebuild or repair your buildings.
- The cost of clearing the site, demolishing, propping up or
supporting parts of your buildings which have
been damaged.
- The additional costs of rebuilding or repairing the damaged
parts of your buildings to meet any Government
or Local Authority requirements.
2. Rent and alternative accommodation 
If you have to move out of your home
because of any loss or damage which is insured under
the Basic cover, we will pay you the
following expenses or losses which you have incurred
with our permission:
- The cost of reasonable alternative accommodation while
you cannot live in your home.
- Rent you would have received if your
home could have been lived in.
- The most we will pay you for
any one claim is 15% of the total sum insured on your buildings.
3. Accidental damage and breakage 
We will pay replacement or repair expenses
you have incurred due to the following events:
- Accidental damage to underground service pipes and cables
for which you are responsible.
- Accidental breakage of fixed glass in windows, doors, fanlights
and skylights of your home or ceramic hobs in
fixed appliances.
- Accidental breakage of sanitary fixtures in your home.
4. Conveyancing cover 
When you have exchanged contracts to sell your
home, we will give the buyer the benefit of this
insurance until the sale is completed.
5. Property owner's liability 
We will pay all amounts which you (or
after your death your legal representatives) become legally liable
to pay due to:
- accidental death of or bodily injury to any person other than
a member of your family or a domestic employee;
or
- accidental damage to property which does not belong to or
is not in the charge or control of you or
your family or domestic employees
which arise from:
- you owning the home and
its land; or
- you previously owning and occupying any
home under section 3 of the Defective Premises Act 1972.
We will not pay more than £2,500,000 for
any one event. In addition, we will also pay
any costs and expenses you have incurred with
our written permission.
What is not covered
Any costs of preparing a claim under this Policy.
See 3 above
- Loss or damage while your home is unoccupied.
See 4 above
- Any claim for loss or damage to the buildings if
the buyer is insured under any other policy.
See 5 above
You are not covered for liability arising from:
- any trade or business activity;
- the use of lifts or mechanically or electrically propelled
vehicles (other than domestic garden equipment);
- a contract unless you would have been legally
liable anyway;
- an incident which occurs over 7 years from the date the Policy
was cancelled after your home was sold; or where
you are entitled to indemnity from another source.
- any condition which is directly or indirectly related to HIV
(Human Immunodeficiency Virus) and/or any HIV related illness
including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and/or mutant
derivatives or variations however caused.
Basis of settling claims
We will settle your claim by paying the cost
of rebuilding or repairing the part of your buildings
destroyed or damaged where:
1. You have stated that the sum insured (as shown on your schedule)
represents the full replacement value of your buildings
including the additional expenses listed under "additional
cover 1".
If the replacement value of your buildings is
greater than the sum insured shown on your schedule, you
will have to pay a proportionate share of the claim.
For example, if your sum insured only covers two thirds of the
replacement value of your buildings, we will
only pay two thirds of the claim .
2. Your buildings are kept in good repair.
If your buildings are in a poor state of repair
or decoration we will make a deduction for wear
and tear.
After we have settled a claim we will
not reduce your sum insured on your buildings as
long as you take any reasonable measures
we suggest to prevent any further loss or damage.
Contents Cover 
Your Policy schedule shows if this section applies.
Basic cover
What is covered
We will pay for loss of or damage to your
contents whilst in the home during the
period of insurance caused by the following:
- Fire and smoke.
- Explosion.
- Lightning and thunderbolt.
- Earthquake.
- Riot, civil commotion, strike and labour disturbances.
- Aircraft and other aerial devices or anything dropped or falling
from them.
- Storm or flood.
- Theft or attempted theft.
- Escape of water from any fixed domestic water or heating installation.
- Collision by any vehicle or animal.
- Malicious acts or vandalism.
- Oil leaking from any fixed domestic oil-fired heating installation.
- Subsidence, heave or landslip of the site on which your home
stands.
- Falling trees, telegraph poles, lamp posts, breakage or collapse
of television or radio aerials, externally fixed satellite receiving
dishes, their fittings or masts.
Protection From Inflation
This section is index-linked.
What is not covered
Excess
The first £50 of any claim under basic cover 1 to 14 unless
shown differently in the schedule. 
See 1 above
- Loss or damage from any gradually-operating cause.
See 7 above
- Loss or damage by frost.
See 8 above
- Loss or damage while your home is unoccupied.
- Loss or damage while the home or any part
is lent or let unless a person has used violent force to enter
or leave the home.
See 9 above
- Loss or damage to the installation itself.
- Loss or damage while the home is unoccupied.
See 10 above
- Loss or damage caused by any insect, vermin, bird or domestic
pet.
See 11 above
- Loss or damage by any person lawfully in your home.
- Loss or damage while your home is unoccupied.
See 13 above
- Loss or damage due to coastal or river erosion.
Your Policy schedule shows "Replacement
plus accidental damage" if this Cover applies.
What is covered
We will pay for accidental damage to contents.
What is not covered
Excess
- The first £50 of any claim under this extension
- Loss or damage caused by:
- any other Basic cover;
- any kind of cleaning, dyeing, or repairing or restoring due
to wear and tear or depreciation
- any kind of rot, woodworm, moths, insects or vermin, frost,
atmospheric or climatic condition or any other gradual cause;
- deliberate acts by you or your family;
- mechanical or electrical faults or breakdown;
- faulty workmanship, defective design or defective materials;
- any household removal unless by professional removal contractors
but excluding denting, chipping and scratching.
- Loss or damage while the home or any part
is lent or let.
Protection from Inflation
This section is index-linked
What is covered
1. Contents temporarily removed from the home 
We will pay you for loss or
damage to your contents which are temporarily
removed from the home but only if the items are
within Great Britain, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands and
the loss or damage is caused by an event under the Basic cover.
The most we will pay you is
15% of the total sum insured on contents.
2. Accidental breakage of ceramic hobs, mirrors and glass
We will pay you for accidental
breakage of glass fixed in furniture (other than television sets),
including plate glass, mirrors and ceramic tops or hobs in free
standing cookers.
3. Accidental damage to computer equipment and home electronics
We will pay you for accidental
damage to television sets, including aerials and masts and externally
fixed satellite receiving dishes, radios, record players, tape
and video recorders and computer equipment in the home
which you own or are responsible for
and which are only for private purposes.
The most we will pay for any one item of equipment
, except computer equipment is £1,000.
The most we will pay in any one period
of insurance for computer equipment is £5,000.
4. Freezer contents 
We will pay you the cost of
replacing food in your domestic deep freezer if it is spoiled
by any of the following:
- The freezer unit accidentally breaking down.
- The refrigerant or refrigerant fumes escaping from the unit.
- The electricity or gas supply accidentally failing.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim is £350.
5. Compensation for death 
We will pay £5,000 if you or
your spouse dies from an injury within 3 months of it happening
if that injury was caused by fire or an assault by thieves in
your home.
The most we will pay under this fatal accident
extension during any one period of insurance
is £5,000.
6. Loss of rent or the cost of alternative accommodation
While your home cannot be lived in due to an
event covered under the Basic cover we will pay
you the following:
- The cost of reasonable alternative accommodation for you,
your family and your domestic pets, if this is necessary
(as long as you have our permission).
- Rent which you still have to pay.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim is 15% of the total sum insured on your contents.
7. Metered water and oil used for heating 
We will pay you for loss of
metered water or oil if the loss is caused by accidental damage
to your fixed domestic water or heating installation.
The most we will pay you in
any one period of insurance is £1,000.
8. Wedding gifts 
If any of your children who permanently live with you
get married, we will cover their wedding
gifts against any of the Basic covers for 1 month before and after
the wedding date but only while they are:
- in your home;
- in the building where the reception is being held;
- in the married couple's home; or
- being transported between the places specified above.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim is £1,000.
9. Liability as a tenant 
We will pay all amounts that you become
legally liable to pay because of your tenancy of the home
if damage to the buildings is caused
by:
- accidental damage as described in additional covers 3 on page
10 under Buildings Cover; or
- Basic cover as described on page 7 and 8 under Buildings Cover.
The most we will pay is 15% of the total sum
insured on contents in any one period
of insurance.
10. Accidents to domestic employees 
We will pay all amounts that you become
legally liable to pay due to a domestic employee's accidental
death or bodily injury. In addition we will also
pay any costs and expenses you have incurred
with our written permission.
11. Liability to the public and personal liability 
We will pay all amounts which you (or,
after your death, your legal representatives) and your
family become legally liable to pay due to:
- accidental death of or bodily injury to any person other than
a member of your family or a domestic employee;
or
- accidental damage to property which does not belong to
you or is not in the charge or control of you
or your family or domestic employees
other than any building temporarily occupied for private purposes.
The damage must occur within Great Britain, the Isle of Man or
the Channel Islands or during a temporary visit elsewhere in the
world.
We will not pay more than £2,500,000 for
any one event. In addition, we will also pay
any costs and expenses you have incurred with
our written permission.
12. Unrecovered damages 
We will pay you all sums which
you have been awarded in Courts of United Kingdom jurisdiction
and which have not been paid to you within 3
months of the date of the award, if:
- additional cover 11 on this page would have insured
you if the award had been made against you rather
than in your favour; and
- you do not have an appeal pending.
We will not pay more than the limit of indemnity
under additional cover 11 on this page.
What is not covered
What is covered
13. Loss of keys 
We will pay you for replacing
locks, including keys to:
- any external doors and windows; and
- intruder alarms and safes installed in your home
if the keys are:
- stolen; or
- accidentally lost.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim is £250.
14. Loss of title deeds 
We will pay up to £250 if you need
to replace the title deeds to your home as a
result of any loss or damage which is insured under Basic covers
1 to 14 of this section. You are covered while the title deeds
are within your home or in your bank.
What is not covered
See 1 above
Loss or damage:
- to money and valuables;
- caused by storm or flood if the property is in the open;
- caused by theft unless:
- from a building where you or your family
are living or working (not students' halls of residence);
- from any other building where violent force is used to enter
or leave the building;
- by robbery while the property is in the charge of you
or your family or an authorised person;
or
- from the gardens of your home. We will not pay the first £25
of any claim and the most we will pay for any
claim is £250.
- when the property is being transported or in a furniture store
house.
See 2 above
- Loss or damage while your home is unoccupied.
See 3 above
- Accidental loss or damage caused by:
- mechanical or electrical fault, breakdown or failure; or
- setting up, maintaining, repairing, or dismantling equipment
or faulty design or construction.
- Loss or damage to audio or video tapes, records, compact or
computer discs, cartridges or cassettes.
- Accidental loss or damage to any component if the loss or
damage occurs when it is not installed in the equipment covered.
- Loss or damage to video cameras.
See 4 above
Loss or damage:
- If caused by the deliberate act of the supply authority.
- If caused by the deliberate act of a member of your
family.
- If your freezer unit is over 15 years old at the date of loss.
See 7 above
Loss or damage while your home is unoccupied.
See 8 above
Loss or damage whilst your home or the married
couple's home is unoccupied.
See 9 above
Loss or damage:
- While the home is unoccupied.
- To any property which you own.
See 10 above
Liability arising from the following:
- You owning the home and its land or any other
building or land.
- Any profession, business or employment involving you
or any member of your family.
- You occupying any land or building other than your
home or allotment.
- You owning or possessing a prescribed animal under the Dangerous
Dogs Act 1991 (and any amending Legislation).
- A contract, unless you would have been legally
liable anyway.
- You owning or using any:
- lift, caravan, aircraft (including model aircraft) or watercraft;
- mechanically or electrically propelled vehicles (other than
domestic garden equipment); or
- animals other than horses, domestic dogs or cats.
- Any condition which is directly or indirectly related to HIV
(Human Immunodeficiency Virus) and/or any HIV related illness
including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and/or mutant
derivatives or variations however caused.
Protection from Inflation
This section is index-linked
Basis of settling claims
We will settle your claims based on either indemnity
value or replacement value as shown in your schedule.
1 Where you have chosen indemnity value, the
following conditions apply:
- You have stated that the sum insured (as shown on your schedule)represents
the replacement value of the contents including
a deduction for wear and tear and loss of value.
- If the indemnity value of the contents is
greater than the sum insured shown on your schedule, you
will have to pay a proportionate share of the claim.
For example, if your sum insured only covers two thirds of the
indemnity value of your contents, we will only
pay two thirds of the claim.
- If the sum insured is adequate, we will settle
the claim by either replacing the item or paying you the
cost of repairing or replacing your property in the same form
and style as new with a deduction for wear and tear and loss of
value.
2 Where you have chosen replacement value, the
following conditions apply:
- You have stated that the sum insured is the full replacement
value of the contents.
- If the full replacement value of your contents is
greater than the sum insured shown on your schedule, you
will have to pay a proportionate share of the claim.
For example, if your sum insured only covers two thirds of the
replacement value of your contents, we will only
pay two thirds of the claim.
- If the sum insured is adequate, we will settle
the claim by either replacing the item or paying you the
cost of repairing or replacing your property in the same form
and style as new, except for clothing and linen where a deduction
for wear and tear and loss of value will be made.
3 We will not pay more than:
- One third of the total sum insured for contents in
any one claim for valuables.
- 5% of the total sum insured for contents for
any one valuable or collection of stamps or coins unless shown
differently on your schedule. 
- £250 for any one claim for money.
4 After we have settled a claim we will
not reduce your sum insured on your contents as
long as you take any reasonable measures
we suggest to prevent any further loss or damage.
All Risks Cover
Your Policy schedule shows which covers apply.
What is covered
We will cover you in accordance
with your schedule for accidental loss, damage
or theft within Great Britain, the Isle of Man , the Channel Islands
and temporarily overseas for up to 60 days in any one
period of insurance.
1. Specified items 
We will pay you the cost of
replacing or repairing your valuables and any other item specified
in the schedule. 
We will not pay you more than
the sum insured for that item as shown in the schedule.
2. Unspecified valuables, personal effects
and clothing. 
We will pay you the cost of
replacing or repairing your valuables, personal effects and clothing.
The most we will pay you for
any one article is £500.
3. Sports equipment 
We will pay you the cost of
replacing or repairing your sports equipment and clothing.
The most we will pay you for
any one article is £500.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim is £1000.
4. Computer equipment, sound equipment
and portable television sets 
We will pay you the cost of
replacing or repairing your portable television sets, radio receivers,
audio equipment, personal computer equipment, video cassette recorders,
aerials, masts and fixed satellite receiving dishes.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim except for computer equipment is £1,000
The most we will pay you in
any one period of insurance for computer equipment
is shown in the endorsement attached to your
schedule. 
5. Pedal cycles 
We will pay you the cost of
replacing or repairing your pedal cycles or accessories.
The most we will pay you for
any one cycle and its accessories unless we have
shown differently in the schedule is £350.
6. Money, credit cards 
Money 
We will pay for loss of your money.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim is £500.
Credit cards 
We will pay you for loss due
to unauthorised use of your credit cards.
The most we will pay you for
any one claim is £1000.
Protection from inflation
Sub-sections 1 to 4 above are index-linked.
What is not covered
- Loss or damage involving:
- mechanical or electrical fault, breakdown or failure;
- wear and tear, deterioration, mildew, any moth, vermin or domestic
pet or any repair, restoration or renovation work;
- any property used professionally or for any trade purposes;
or
- theft from an unattended motor vehicle unless all doors, windows
and other openings are locked and property is locked in the boot
or hidden from view.
See 2 above
- Loss or damage to:
- contact or corneal lenses;
- sports equipment, vehicles, cycles and their accessories;
- hearing aids; or
- musical instruments.
- The first £50 of any claim.
See 3 above
- Loss or damage to:
- motor vehicles, boats, caravans, trailers, gliders and accessories
belonging to any of these; or
- sports equipment whilst in use.
- The first £50 of any claim.
See 4 above
- Loss or damage to:
- any component part which is not installed in the equipment covered
or if the maker's instructions are not being followed;
- the equipment during the setting up, repair or removal of the
installation or any part of them; or
- audio or video tapes, records, compact or computer discs, cartridges
or cassettes.
- The first £50 of any claim.
See 5 above
- Theft of your cycle accessories unless the cycle is stolen
at the same time.
- Loss or damage to the pedal cycle while it is being used for
racing.
- Theft of unattended cycles unless they are in a locked building
at the time or have been immobilised by a security device.
- Damage to tyres unless the cycle is damaged at the same time.
- The first £50 of any claim unless we have
shown differently in the schedule. 
See 6 above
- Any losses which are not reported to the police (and for credit
cards to the issuer of the card), within 24 hours of
discovering the loss.
- Loss of value, confiscation or shortages due to your error.
- For credit cards, any loss due to
you breaking their terms and conditions of use.
- The first £50 of any claim.
Basis of settling claims
We will settle your claims in accordance with
these conditions:
1. You have stated the sum insured (as shown on your schedule)
is as follows:
- Personal effects and clothing - the maximum amount of these
items that may be covered at any one time.
- Valuables - the total value of these items owned by
you or your family valued at the current
cost of replacing them.
- Sports equipment and sound equipment - the total value of
this equipment owned by you or your family
valued at current replacement costs.
2. If the full value of the property as described above, is greater
than the sum insured shown on your schedule, you will
have to pay a proportionate share of the claim. For example, if
your sum insured only covers two thirds of the full value of the
property, we will only pay two thirds of the
claim.
3. We will not pay more than the sum insured
shown against each item in the schedule during
any one period of insurance.
4. In sub-sections 1 to 4 we will settle your
claim subject to the following:
- Valuables - we will pay for a replacement,
repair or the amount of the loss or damage but only up to the
sum insured for the article as shown in the schedule.
- Other items - we will pay for the cost of
repairing or replacing your insured property in the same form
and style as new, except for clothing and linen where a deduction
for wear, tear and loss of value will be made.
5. In sub-sections 5 and 6, we will settle your
claim on an indemnity value basis unless shown otherwise in the
schedule. 
General Conditions
1. Reasonable care 
You must take all reasonable care to prevent accidents,
disease, loss or damage and keep your property in a good state
of repair and condition.
2. Contribution 
If at the time of any loss, damage or liability covered under
this Policy, you have any other insurance which
covers the same loss, damage or liability, we will
only pay a rateable share of the claim.
3. Claims 
When a claim, or possible claim, occurs you must
tell us in writing as soon as possible:
For loss or damage claims you must give us any
documents, information and evidence we need at
your expense. You must also tell the police immediately if the
claim is being made as a result of accidental loss, damage by
malicious persons, theft or any attempted theft.
For liability claims you must send us any claim,
writ or summons as soon as you receive it. Do
not negotiate, pay, settle, admit or deny any claim without our
written permission.
4. Our rights after a claim 
We are allowed to enter any building where loss
or damage to the property has happened, to take possession of
and deal with any salvage in a reasonable manner. But
you must not abandon any property and leave it to us.
Before or after we pay your claim under this
Policy, we can take action, in your name, or
in the name of anyone else who is covered under the Policy, to
enforce your rights against any other person. We will pay any
costs or expenses involved.
Following a claim you must install any additional
protective measures or devices which we specify.
5. Fraudulent Claims 
If you make a claim under this Policy and
you know the claim is false or fraudulent in any way,
the Policy is void and any claim will not be paid.
6. Arbitration 
If we accept your claim but you disagree
over the amount you will be paid, the dispute
will be referred to an Arbitrator who will be appointed in accordance
with current law. When this occurs, the Arbitrator must decide
on an award before you can bring proceedings
against us.
7. Cancellation 
We can cancel your Policy, or any part of it,
by sending you 7 days' notice by recorded delivery
to your last known address. In these circumstances we
will repay any unused part of your premium.
8. Monthly payments 
If your Policy is cancelled we will stop asking
for your monthly premium and you must tell your
bank that payments will stop.
If your bank does not pay any single monthly premium, your Policy
will be cancelled. We will give you 7 days' written
notice first.
General Exclusions
You are not covered for loss or destruction of or damage
to any property or consequential loss or any legal liability directly
or indirectly caused by or contributed to, or arising from the
following:
- Ionising radiation or contamination by radio-activity from
any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from the burning of
nuclear fuel.
- The radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties
of any explosive nuclear assembly or its nuclear components.
- War, invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities (whether
war is declared or not), civil war, rebellion, revolution, military
force or coup.
- Pressure waves from aircraft and other aerial devices travelling
at sonic or supersonic speeds.
You are also not covered for any of the following:
- Any loss suffered by you due to any person
obtaining any property by deception.
- Any loss or damage which happened to you before
the first period of insurance.
- Wear and tear or any gradually-operating cause.
- Consequential loss of any kind incurred by you or
your family.
- Loss of value following a claim payment.
- Mechanical or electrical fault, breakdown or failure.
- The cost of replacing any undamaged item or parts of items
which form part of a set, suite or has a uniform nature, colour
or design when damage has occured within a clearly identifiable
area or to a specific part and a replacement cannot be matched.
What to do if you have
a complaint
Complaints Procedure
If you have a complaint about your Policy, there
are a number of steps you can follow to get the
problem solved.
To help us deal with your case as quickly as possible, please
have the details of your Policy ready (surname, initials, policy
number, departmental reference etc.).
Procedure: 
1. Intermediary 
First contact the intermediary who arranged your Policy for
you. If the complaint concerns a registered insurance
broker you can approach the Insurance Brokers
Registration Council (IBRC) at:
Insurance Brokers Registration Council 
15 St. Helens Place, London EC3A 6DS 
Tel: (0171) 588 4387 
2. Branch Manager 
Alternatively, write to the manager of the branch of Independent
Insurance which issued your Policy.
3. Chief Executive 
If you are not satisfied, write to Michael Bright,
Chairman and Managing Director of Independent Insurance at the
following address:
Marsland House 
Marsland Road, Sale 
Cheshire M33 3AQ 
Tel: (0161) 962 2288 
4. Association of British Insurers 
At any stage you can contact the Association
of British Insurers for help at its London Headquarters:
Consumer Information Department 
Association of British Insurers 
51 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HQ 
Tel: (0171) 600 3333 
5. Insurance Ombudsman 
If you are still unhappy, you can
ask the Insurance Ombudsman to review your case by contacting
The Insurance Ombudsman at:
The Insurance Ombudsman Bureau 
City Gate 1 
135 Park Street, London SE1 9EA 
Tel: (0171) 928 4488 
