
 
POIS Member Services Travel Plan
 
 
 
 
 Cover 
 House
 Hazelwick Avenue
 Three Bridges
 Crawley
 West Sussex
 RH10 1PZ
 United Kingdom
 
Tel: 
 0800 622417
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Application 
 Form 
 
 
 
 Credit 
 Card Payment Form 
 
 
 
 Direct 
 Debit Payment Form 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms 
 & Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Travel 
 insurance for pre-existing medical conditions or people over age 75
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 POIS 
 Assurance website 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Links 
 - Airport and travel information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Travel 
 Plan 
 
This is to certify 
 that in accordance with the authorisation granted by certain Underwriters 
 at Lloyd&#146;s whose names, which will be supplied on application, may 
 be ascertained by reference to the said Contract which bears the seal of 
 the Lloyd&#146;s Policy Signing Office and in consideration of the payment 
 of the required premium and the validation of this Certificate by the Coverholder 
 and subject to the Terms, Conditions and Exclusions contained herein and 
 the Declaration in the Application Form the said Underwriters are hereby 
 bound during the Period of Insurance each for his own part and not one for 
 another, their Heirs, Executors and Administrators, to indemnify the Insured 
 Person as provided in the wording as follows:
 
Section 
 1 Cancellation and Curtailment: Up to £2,000 each Insured Person each 
 trip, £4,000 each Insured Person in all
 To reimburse 
 the Insured Person in respect of loss of travel and accommodation expenses 
 paid or contracted to be paid consequent on the journey or holiday being 
 necessarily and unavoidably cancelled or curtailed due to any cause listed 
 below provided such expenses are not recoverable from any other source.
 
 
- Accidental injury, 
 illness or death of:
 a) the Insured Person or any person with whom he had arranged to 
 travel;
 b) the close relative, fiancee or close business colleague of any 
 person described in (a) above;
 c) any person with whom the Insured Person had temporarily arranged 
 to reside during the Period of Travel.
 
- Compulsory quarantine, 
 jury service (where postponement has been denied by the Clerk of Court&#146;s 
 Office), witness call or redundancy (qualifying for payment under the 
 current United Kingdom redundancy legislation) applying to the Insured 
 Person or to any person with whom he had arranged to travel;
 
- Any damage to the 
 home of the Insured Person, or any person with whom he had arranged to 
 travel in the United Kingdom making it uninhabitable, or any Police request 
 for any of their presence following a burglary or attempted burglary of 
 any of their homes or places of business during the Period of Travel, 
 or the 7 days immediately preceding it;
 Any official requirement for the Insured Person or any person with whom 
 he had arranged to travel to attend to emergency duty in British military, 
 medical or public service;
 
 
- A Government regulation 
 following an epidemic which prohibits the Insured Person from travelling.
 
 
Section 
 2 Medical and Emergency Expenses: Up to £5,000,000 each Insured Person 
 in all
 To reimburse 
 the Insured Person for:
 
 
- The following expenses 
 necessarily incurred as a result of the Insured Person becoming ill or 
 sustaining personal injury during the Period of Travel:
 a) Usual customary and reasonable expenses incurred (outside the 
 United Kingdom and outside the Insured Person&#146;s normal country of 
 residence or domicile) for medical surgical and hospital charges (including 
 emergency dental treatment for the relief of immediate pain only), ambulance, 
 nursing home and nursing attendance charges;
 b) Reasonable additional cost of repatriation to the United Kingdom;
 c) Reasonable additional hotel expenses;
 d) Reasonable travel and hotel expenses of one relative or one 
 friend, resident in the United Kingdom, who is required on medical advice 
 to travel to, remain with or escort the Insured Person if he is severely 
 injured or becomes seriously ill;
 e) Reasonable additional cost of funeral expenses abroad or additional 
 cost of returning the Insured Person&#146;s mortal remains to his former 
 place of residence in the United Kingdom;
 f) Reasonable additional cost of storing the Insured Person&#146;s 
 personal effects outside the United Kingdom for up to 3 months or of returning 
 them to the United Kingdom.
 
- Reasonable additional 
 travel expenses necessarily incurred as a result of sudden serious illness, 
 injury or death of one of the Insured Person&#146;s close relatives, his 
 fiancee or close business colleague resident in the United Kingdom.
 
 
Section 
 3 Hospitalisation Benefit: £50 per day
 To pay the amount shown above for each complete 24 hour period of hospitalisation 
 in excess of 5 days subject to an overall maximum of £1,000 per policy 
 period. Hospitalisation means the period starting with admission to a hospital 
 and ends with discharge from the hospital. If the patient is transferred 
 to another such place for continued treatment of the same or related treatment, 
 it will be considered to be a continuation of the same confinement.
 
Section 
 4 Personal Accident: Up to £10,000 each Insured Person in all (£5,000 
 Per insured child)
 To pay according to the Schedule of Compensation below if at any time during 
 the Period of Travel the Insured Person sustains accidental bodily injury. 
 Accidental bodily injury must arise from a sudden unexpected violent unusual 
 specific event which solely and independently of any other cause within 
 12 calendar months from the date of the accident results in his death or 
 disablement.
 The Sum Insured will be:
 
 
- The sum shown in 
 column A if death occurs during the Period of Travel as the result of 
 an accident in an aircraft or sea-going vessel or a regular scheduled 
 service in which the Insured Person is travelling as a fare-paying passenger 
 (including boarding and disembarking); or
 
 
- The sum shown in 
 column B for death or bodily injuries arising from any other accident 
 occurring during the Period of Travel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A
 
 
 B
 
 
 
 A 
 Death 
 
 £50,000
 
 
 £10,000
 
 
 
 B 
 Loss 
 of one limb or one eye 
 
 
 
 
 £5,000
 
 
 
 C 
 Loss 
 of one limb and one eye or two limbs or two eyes 
 
 
 
 
 £10,000
 
 
 
 D 
 Permanent 
 Total Disablement from engaging in his usual occupation 
 
 
 
 
 £10,000
 
 
 
 
 If the Insured Person is under 16 years old the death benefit is limited 
 to £5,000. If the insured person is over 70 years old cover is limited 
 to (a), (b) and (c) only. If the Insured Person is not gainfully employed 
 benefit (d) is from engaging in any gainful occupation whatsoever.
 
 
Section 
 5 Personal Baggage: Up to £1,500 each Insured Person each loss
 To indemnify the Insured Persons effects subject to:
 a) a limit of £250 any one article, pair, set or kit of articles, 
 and
 b) an overall limit of £400 for jewellery, furs, articles containing 
 gold, silver, precious metals, watches, photographic, optical or electronic 
 equipment or goods .
 c) all single items of jewellery in excess of £250 not declared 
 on proposal should be notified to POIS Member Services Ltd prior to departure.
 Please contact POIS Member Services Ltd if you require additional cover 
 or if you require the Sports and Leisure Activity Equipment Extension.
 
Section 
 6 Delayed Baggage: Up to £100 each Insured Person subject to a limit 
 of £150 each loss in respect of a couple or family
 To indemnify the Insured Person for emergency purchases necessarily made 
 if his baggage is temporarily lost in transit for longer than 12 hours on 
 the outward journey.
 
Section 
 7
 Part A &#150; Delay and Detour: Up to £1,000 each Insured Person each 
 trip, £2,000 in all
 Part B &#150; Missed Departure: Up to £250 each Insured Person each 
 trip, £500 in all
 If the departure of the aircraft, sea vessel or train on which the Insured 
 Person is booked to travel as a passenger is delayed, or if it is re-routed 
 or cancelled due to industrial action, riots, terrorism, hijack, bad weather 
 or mechanical breakdown, the Underwriters will pay:
 Part A either
 
 
- In respect of ANY 
 STAGE OF THE JOURNEY: £20 for the first completed 12 hours that 
 the departure is delayed and £10 for each further 12 hours up to 
 but not exceeding £200 in all, provided that the Insured Person 
 is at the departure point at the time specified in the itinerary or 
 
- in respect of the 
 OUTWARD JOURNEY only: for unused travel and accommodation expenses paid 
 or contracted to be paid up to a maximum of £1,000 if, after a minimum 
 of 12 hours has elapsed, the Insured Person chooses to cancel the holiday 
 or journey completely, provided he is at the departure point at the time 
 specified in the itinerary.
 
 
Part B
 
 
- Up to £250 
 for the reasonable extra cost of transport and accommodation costs incurred 
 if, as result of the failure of public transport for any reason listed 
 above, or of an accident or break-down to his car on his way, the Insured 
 Person fails to reach the port or airport in time.
 
 
- Up to £150 
 for the reasonable extra cost of transport and accommodation incurred 
 if, as the result of the failure of one stage of a series of interconnecting 
 flights, for any reason listed above, the Insured Person fails to make 
 the onward connection, provided at least 3 hours, or a period suggested 
 by the operator, whichever is the longer, has been left between the expected 
 arrival time of the first flight and the scheduled departure time of the 
 onward connection.
 
 
Section 
 8 Personal Liability: Up to £1,000,000 each Insured Person in all
 To indemnify the Insured Person for his Legal Liability for bodily injury 
 to persons other than employees or members of his family and/or damage to 
 property not owned by him or in his care, custody or control or that of 
 members of his family or employees which arises from an accident occurring 
 during the Period of Travel inclusive of legal expenses.
 Even if the Insured Person takes out any other Insurance with the Underwriters 
 which includes this type of cover, the total liability of the Underwriters 
 under all such insurances arising out of the same accident or series of 
 accidents shall not exceed £1,000,000.
 
Section 
 9 Hijack: Up to £500 each Insured Person each trip, £1,000 each 
 Insured Person in all
 If the Insured Person is prevented from reaching his scheduled destination 
 because of the hijack of the conveyance in which he is travelling, the Underwriters 
 will pay the Insured Person a benefit of £100 per day for every complete 
 24 hours lost.
 &#147;HIJACK&#148; means the control of a conveyance in which the Insured 
 Person is travelling being unlawfully and unwillingly passed from its regular 
 crew to a party who uses or threatens to use violence to obtain control 
 of such conveyance.
 Section 10 Legal Expenses: Up to £5,000 each Insured Person in all
 To indemnify the Insured Person for legal costs and expenses incurred by 
 the Insured Person in pursuit of legal proceedings for compensation and/or 
 damages directly arising from or out of injury or death to the Insured Person 
 during the Period of Travel.
 
SPECIAL 
 EXTENSIONS
 Section 11 Sports and Leisure Activity Equipment Extension: Up to £500 
 each Insured Person each trip, £1,000 each Insured Person in all
 Provided that the Insured Person has paid the appropriate additional premium 
 this Insurance is extended to cover amateur sports and leisure activities. 
 The Insured Person will be indemnified up to £500 each Insured Person 
 each trip, and £1,000 each Insured Person in all for loss or damage 
 to his own sports equipment whilst in use provided that such equipment is 
 not more than 2 years old on the date of loss. The amount is additional 
 to the cover provided under Section 5 (personal baggage) and is subject 
 to the same Conditions and Exclusions.
 
Loss 
 of Credit Cards Extension
 In the event that you lose your Credit Cards during the Period of Travel 
 please call the emergency number giving details of:
 a) the type of credit card and the number if possible;
 b) the name of the issuing bank or company;
 c) the date and amount of the last transaction.
 A stop will then be placed on the card for you by Mercury to prevent unauthorised 
 use of your cards.
 
EXCLUSIONS
 Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4
 The Underwriters shall not be liable for losses arising from:
 a) the Insured Person engaging in mountaineering, pot-holing, manual 
 work during the Period of Travel, racing other than on foot, organised sports, 
 flying (except whilst travelling as a passenger on a commercial or 
 scheduled flight), wilful exposure to risk (other than in an attempt to 
 save human life), military service (except in respect of Section 1 subsection 
 4), suicide, intentional self-injury, insanity, psychiatric disorders or 
 the effects of alcohol or drugs;
 b) underwater activities involving the use of artificial breathing 
 apparatus unless the combined Scuba diving and Winter Sports cover has been 
 purchased when the first 17 days of Scuba diving and/or Winter Sports during 
 the Period of Insurance will be covered. If the combined Scuba diving and 
 Winter Sports cover is purchased this exclusion is restricted only to Scuba 
 diving claims directly or indirectly occasioned by, happening through or 
 in the consequence of solo diving or diving below a depth of 30 metres whether 
 accompanied or not.
 c) pregnancy unless the Period of Travel ends more than 2 months 
 before the estimated date of delivery;
 d) any pre-existing health condition which existed prior to the inception 
 of this policy; 
 e) any holiday or journey booked or undertaken against the advice 
 of a medical practitioner or for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment;
 f) the cost of replenishing supplies of any medication the Insured 
 Person was using at the commencement of the holiday/journey;
 g) medical surgical or hospital charges incurred more than 12 months 
 after the expiry of the Period of Travel in which the claim was incurred;
 h) the extra cost of claims for cancellation or curtailment directly 
 or indirectly arising from the failure to notify the travel agent/tour operator 
 or provider of transport or accommodation immediately it is found necessary 
 to cancel or curtail the travel arrangements.
 
Sections 
 1 and 2
 The Underwriters shall not be liable for the first £50.00
 Section 1 each Insured Person, couple or family each loss;
 Section 2 each claim except in the event of hospitalisation for a period 
 in excess of 72 hours when the £50 deductible shall be waived;
 In addition to the above, in respect of persons aged 61 to 75 years old:
 The Underwriters shall not be liable for 20% of each and every claim up 
 to a maximum of £1,000.
 
Sections 
 5 and 11
 The Underwriters shall not be liable for the first £50.00
 Section 5 each Insured Person, couple or family each loss;
 Section 11 each Insured Person each loss.
 It is hereby noted and agreed that in the event of a claim being made under 
 Section 5 (personal baggage) and Section 11 (sports and leisure equipment 
 exclusions) as the result of a single occurrence only one excess will apply.
 
Sections 
 5 and 11
 The Underwriters shall not be liable for:
 a) losses unless reported to the Police within 48 hours of the discovery 
 of the loss and unless a report is obtained to support the claim;
 b) losses due to breakage of or damage to fragile articles;
 c) losses of valuables listed in Section 5(b) or losses due to theft 
 unless supported by a report obtained from the Police (and the management 
 if stolen in a hotel) within 48 hours of the discovery of the loss;
 d) loss or damage caused by wear, tear, gradual deterioration, decay, 
 moth, vermin, atmospheric or climatic conditions or mechanical breakdown 
 or derangement of any kind;
 e) loss of or damage to corneal lenses, unset precious stones, business 
 goods, samples or merchandise, hired equipment or sporting equipment whilst 
 in use, other than as provided for under section 11 Special Extensions; 
 
 f) losses from unattended baggage; 
 g) (i) theft from a vehicle not involving forcible entry evidenced 
 by damage to the vehicle itself and from a soft topped or open vehicle unless 
 from a locked boot;
 (ii) theft from any vehicle left unattended overnight.
 The Insured Person shall take all reasonable steps to avoid or minimise 
 any loss or damage.
 
Section 
 7
 The Underwriters shall not be liable for any losses arising from:
 a) any trip booked when it is public knowledge that the holiday/journey 
 could be affected by industrial action or delays/disruptions arising from 
 weather conditions if the situation is in existence or publicly declared 
 on the date of booking;
 b) claims arising directly from the withdrawal from service (temporary 
 or otherwise) of an aircraft or sea vessel on the recommendation of a Port 
 Authority or the Civil Aviation Authority or any similar body;
 c) failure of the Insured Person to allow sufficient time for the 
 public transport to arrive on schedule and to deliver the Insured Person 
 to the departure point at the time specified in the schedule/itinerary.
 d) vehicle accident and/or breakdown cover in respect of cars aged 
 10 years or more.
 All claims must be supported by a bill for repairs.
 
Section 
 8
 No claim shall be payable for Legal Liability arising from the ownership 
 use or possession of any mechanically propelled vehicle, craft or aircraft, 
 nor for Liability arising from the practice of a profession or occupation, 
 the supply of goods or services, wilful or malicious acts, employer&#146;s 
 liability or contractual liability.
 
Section 
 10
 The Underwriters shall not be liable for any claim:
 a) brought against a Tour Operator, Travel Agent or Carrier;
 b) for legal expenses incurred prior to the granting of support from 
 the Underwriters;
 c) reported more than 180 days after the date of the incident giving 
 rise to
 the claim;
 d) where the Underwriters consider the Insured Person&#146;s prospects 
 of achieving a reasonable benefit are insufficient.
 
ELECTRONIC DATE 
 RECOGNITION EXCLUSION (TRAVEL) CLAUSE
 This exclusion applies to section(s) : 1, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11
 The underwriters shall not be liable under this Insurance for any claims 
 in any way caused or contributed to by:
 (i) the failure of; or
 (ii) the fear of the failure of; or
 (iii) the inability of
 any equipment or any computer program to recognise, interpret correctly 
 or process any date as its true calendar date or to continue to function 
 correctly beyond that date.
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 APPLYING TO ALL SECTIONS
 
 
 
- The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable for accident, illness, loss, damage, destruction, 
 liability, expense, or any consequential loss whatsoever arising therefrom 
 directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to or arising from:
 a nuclear fission, nuclear fusion or radioactive contamination;
 b war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities (whether war 
 be declared or not), civil war, rebellion, revolution, insurrection or 
 military or usurped power or confiscation or detention or nationalisation 
 or requisition or destruction of or damage to property by or under the 
 order of any government or other competent authority; Terrorist activity 
 is excluded from Sections 1, 5, 6 and 8.
 NB Terrorist Activity is covered for Sections 2 (Medical Expenses), 4 
 (Personal Accident), 7 (Delay and Detour) and 9 (Hijack).
 
 
- The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable for any claim hereunder where, at the start of this 
 Insurance the Insured Person is over 75 years of age. Unless specific 
 permission has been given by POIS Member Services Ltd in writing before 
 commencement of travel, the Underwriters shall not be liable for any claim 
 hereunder for a child (as defined) under 16 unless they are accompanied 
 by an Insured Adult.
 
 
- The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable for Winter Sports unless the combined Scuba diving 
 and Winter Sports cover has been purchased when the first 17 days of Scuba 
 diving and/or Winter Sports during the Period of Insurance will be covered. 
 If Scuba diving and Winter Sports cover is purchased this exclusion is 
 restricted only to Winter Sports claims directly or indirectly occasioned 
 by, happening through or in the consequence of skiing off piste unless 
 accompanied by a qualified ski guide, ski joring, ski jumping, ice hockey, 
 ski flying, hang gliding, parapenting, ski acrobatics, stunting, free 
 style, racing or training, ski bob racing or the use of skeletons or bobsleighs.
 
- The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable for losses or claims arising out of the Insured Person&#146;s 
 own criminal act. 
 
CONDITIONS
 
Section 
 1
 
 
 
- Cancellation cover 
 commences on the date of booking any travel or accommodation or the inception 
 of this Insurance, whichever is the later, and terminates on the commencement 
 of the Period of Travel.
 
- The amount payable 
 for curtailment shall be the proportion of the unused expenses paid or 
 contracted to be paid that the number of days for which the Insured Person 
 is back in the United Kingdom during the Period of Travel bears to the 
 number of days of the pre-booked period of travel.
 
 
 
Section 
 2 
 
a) No arrangement 
 for any journey requiring in-flight medical attendance may be made without 
 the prior agreement of Mercury and/or the Underwriters.
 b) No arrangement for hospital treatment may be made without the 
 prior agreement of Mercury and/or the Underwriters except where there is 
 a life-threatening condition when notification must be made at the earliest 
 opportunity.
 c) In the event of a claim, a medical advisor or advisors appointed 
 by the Underwriters shall be allowed to examine the Insured Person as often 
 as the Underwriters shall consider it necessary. 
 
Section 
 4
 a) Condition (c) of Section 2 shall also apply to this Section.
 b) The liability of the Underwriters in respect of any person any 
 one accident shall not exceed £50,000 in all.
 c) "Permanent" means lasting 12 calendar months from the 
 date of the accident and at the end of that period being beyond expectation 
 of improvement.
 d) "Total" means preventing the Insured Person from engaging 
 in any part of his usual occupation, but for children, any gainful occupation 
 not normally reserved for the handicapped.
 e) "Loss of Limb" means irrecoverable loss by physical 
 separation of a hand at or above the wrist or foot at or above the ankle 
 and includes permanent loss of use of hand, arm or leg.
 
 Sections 5, 6 and 11
 1 Reimbursement for temporary or permanent loss of or damage to baggage 
 in transit is subject to:
 a) immediate notice being made to the Carrier or Handling Agent and 
 a Property Irregularity Report being obtained;
 b) The amount payable for temporary loss being deducted from the 
 final claim settlement under Section 5 if the baggage proves to be permanently 
 lost.
 
 
Section 
 7
 a) In the event of a delay of more than 12 hours the Insured Person 
 must obtain written confirmation of and reason for the delay from the Carrier/Tour 
 Operator.
 b) Compensation will be calculated for part A on the period commencing 
 at the originally scheduled departure time of the aircraft, sea vessel or 
 train and ending at the actual time of departure.
 
 
Section 
 8
 In the event of a claim under this Section the Insured Person shall send 
 to Mercury and/or the Underwriters immediately any notification, writ, summons 
 or other legal process and shall give all necessary information and assistance 
 to enable the Underwriters to negotiate the claim or to institute proceedings 
 and he shall not negotiate pay, settle, admit or repudiate any claim without 
 the written consent of Mercury and/or the Underwriters.
 
 
Section 
 10
 The Underwriters shall have complete control over the legal proceedings 
 and the appointment of a solicitor.
 
CONDITIONS 
 APPLYING TO ALL SECTIONS 
 
 
 
- "Period of 
 Travel" is defined as commencing at the time the Insured Person leaves 
 his home or place of business whichever occurs the later for the purpose 
 of departing on a pre-booked holiday or journey and terminating at the 
 time he returns to his home or place of business whichever occurs the 
 earlier, from door to door. Each Period of Travel shall be deemed a separate 
 Insurance and no such period shall exceed 90 days.
 
 
- Cover under this 
 Insurance shall attach only in respect of Periods of Travel commencing 
 during the Period specified in the Schedule and shall expire at midnight 
 on the last day of the annual period unless a renewal insurance has been 
 purchased.
 
 
- Words in the masculine 
 shall be deemed to include the feminine and vice versa.
 
 
- The Insured Person 
 shall act at all times as if uninsured and shall observe ordinary and 
 proper care in the supervision of all property covered under this Insurance 
 and take all reasonable steps to reduce any loss.
 
 
- If the Insured Person 
 or anyone acting on his behalf makes any statement knowing it to be overstated, 
 false or fraudulent in any respect then this Insurance shall be void and 
 all claims hereunder shall be forfeit.
 
 
- All claims hereunder 
 shall be governed by the law of the United Kingdom whose courts alone 
 shall have jurisdiction in any dispute arising under this Insurance.
 
 
- The Underwriters&#146; 
 liability for each Section shall not exceed the Sum Insured for that Section.
 
 
- The Insured Person 
 shall reimburse the Underwriters within one month of the expiry of the 
 Period of Travel any expenses not covered by this Insurance which are 
 incurred by the Underwriters on his behalf.
 
 
- No claim will be 
 payable for any amount for which any other party is liable or which, but 
 for the existence of this insurance would have been covered by any other 
 insurance.
 
 
- Should any difference 
 arise under this Insurance as to the amount to be paid, liability being 
 otherwise admitted, such difference shall be referred to an arbitrator 
 to be appointed in accordance with the Statutory Provisions in that behalf 
 for the time being in force. Where any difference is by this condition 
 to be referred to an arbitration the making of an award shall be a condition 
 precedent to any right of action against the Underwriters.
 
 
- Child shall be defined 
 as a Child of the Insured Person up to the end of their 21st year if resident 
 with Parent(s) or a full time student.
 
 
- In the event that 
 any premium or instalment premium is not paid within 15 days of the due 
 date all coverage under this Insurance will cease with effect from the 
 due date.
 
 
CLAIMS-IMPORTANT 
 INFORMATION
 If medical attention is received for injury or illness, a Medical Certificate 
 showing the nature of the injury or illness must be obtained together with 
 accounts which should, if possible, be settled. In no event should a claim 
 be notified later than 31 days after the completion of the relevant trip.
 If an Insured Person has to return to his place of residence in the United 
 Kingdom as provided for under the Medical and Emergency Section or the Curtailment 
 Section, MERCURY MUST AUTHORISE such repatriation.
 Any loss, damage or delay to baggage etc whilst in the custody of carriers 
 (airline, transport company etc) must be notified immediately in writing 
 to such carriers, (but in any event within three days) and a Property Irregularity 
 Report obtained.
 Any loss of personal effects must be reported to the Police (and hotel management 
 if applicable) within 48 hours of the discovery of the loss and a written 
 report obtained. 
 
 
WHAT 
 TO DO IN AN EMERGENCY
 Mercury 24 Hour Telephone Service for Advice or Emergencies
 U.K. (BRIGHTON) Tel: 44(0)1273 749222 (24 hour International)
 USA Tel: 
 (1)954 255 3619
 Freephone: USA/Canada (1)888 284 5185
 A 24-hour medical assistance telephone service is operated by Mercury for 
 the benefit of Insured Persons. If you are admitted to a hospital or clinic 
 as an in-patient, MERCURY MUST BE NOTIFIED WITHIN 48 HOURS OF YOUR ADMISSION 
 in order to confirm the conditions of cover. Please ask the treating doctor 
 or physician to contact Mercury immediately you are admitted in order that 
 such confirmation may be given and direct payment of medical bills arranged. 
 Settlement of hospital bills not paid by the Insured Person should be referred 
 to-
 Mercury International Assistance & Claims Ltd., PO Box 673, Hove, 
 Sussex, BN3 5JL, England
 If an Insured Person has to return to his place of residence in the United 
 Kingdom as provided for under Section 1 (Cancellation and Curtailment) or 
 Section 2 (Medical and Emergency Expenses) then MERCURY MUST FIRST AUTHORISE 
 such repatriation.
 The Mercury Service is provided to help you and can be contacted at any 
 time of the day or night. Experienced Assistance Co-ordinators will answer 
 your call so please ensure you have the details of this insurance and all 
 relevant information to hand.
 
CLAIMS 
 OFFICE
 The Underwriters have appointed the following Company to deal with claims:
 MERCURY INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND CLAIMS LIMITED
 PO BOX 673, HOVE, SUSSEX, BN3 5JL ENGLAND
 Tel: (01273) 206883 (Office Hours) Fax: (01273) 733719
 In the event of a claim please apply to Mercury for a claim form. When completed 
 submit direct to Mercury together with the Insurance Certificate and the 
 relevant documents.
 Failure to complete and sign the claim form properly or to omit to include 
 the required documents may prejudice your right to indemnity or benefit 
 under this Insurance. Your attention is also drawn to the excesses applicable 
 to certain Sections of the Insurance.
 
