 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 HOUSEHOLD INSURANCE - Schedule of Benefits 
 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 Members &nbsp 
 Info 
 Help 
 Press 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 HOUSEHOLD 
 INSURANCE 
 Terms and 
 Conditions 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
 Household 
 Insurance Terms and Conditions
 
 
Underwritten 
 by HSBC Insurance, underwriters at Lloyd's and arranged by Rapidinsure.co.uk
 
This 
 is a legal document and may not be altered in any way. 
 
 This 
 list provides an introduction to the terms and conditions of your 
 policy 
 
 
 
 
 Rapid 
 Insure Claims Hotline
 Emergency Assistance Helpline
 Introduction to your policy
 Definitions
 Policy conditions 
 Basis of contract
 Cancellation
 Changes
 Fraudulent claims
 General exceptions
 How to make a claim
 How we will settle your claim
 Other insurances
 Precautions
 Security discounts
 
 
 
 Section 
 1 Buildings
 Alternative accomodation
 Glass and sanitaryware breakage
 Rebuilding expenses
 Rent you receive or pay
 Underground pipes and cables
 Optional Cover
 Accidental damage extension 
 Section 
 2 Contents
 Alternative accomodation
 Audio and visual equipment
 Change of address
 Business equipment
 Computers
 Death
 Deeds and documents
 Glass Breakage
 Lock replacement
 Metered oil or water
 Moving home
 Property in the open
 Rent payable
 Television and video
 Tenants liability 
 Optional 
 Cover 
 Accidental damage extension
 Frozen food extension
 Pedal cycle extension
 Personal belongings extension
 High-risk property extension
 Liabilities 
 Defective premises indemnity 
 Domestic employees
 Public and personal liability
 Tenants liability
 Unpaid damages
 General information
 Material facts
 Security 
 Conditions
 Customer service 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
House 
 and Contents - Claims Hotline
 
The 
 helpline is available should you need to notify us of a claim under 
 your policy. Call 01254 266260 for assistance.
 
Emergency 
 Assistance Helpline
 
This 
 helpline is available if trouble strikes in the home, eg. burst 
 pipes, blocked drains, electrical faults, etc.
 The helpline operators offer practical advice and if required will 
 locate a suitable tradesman notifying you of the call out time and 
 price. You will remain responsible for paying the tradesman, including 
 call out fees.
 Simply call 08705 234 900 and ask for the domestic helpline. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
 
This 
 is your Policy. Your contract of insurance is made up of this policy 
 wording and your Schedule. It is based on the Statement of fact 
 you provided through RapidInsure.co.uk
 
This 
 policy wording and Schedule should be read together. Please check 
 them carefully to make sure that they give you the cover you want. 
 
 
If 
 your needs change or any of the information on which this contract 
 is based changes, the Schedule might need to be altered. Under the 
 Policy conditions you must tell us about any changes. The contract 
 is updated every time we agree to an alteration. Each time we renew 
 the contract or make an alteration we will give you a new Schedule. 
 
 
We 
 agree to insure you according to the terms and conditions contained 
 in this policy wording and the sections indicated in the Schedule 
 for loss, damage, injury or liability which happens during the period 
 of insurance. 
 
The 
 Schedule tells you which sections of this policy wording apply. 
 Opposite each heading of cover you will find some exceptions which 
 tell you what is not covered under that heading. There are also 
 some general exceptions which apply to all of the contract of insurance. 
 
 
You 
 agree to pay the premium and keep to the conditions of the contract 
 of insurance. Unless we have agreed otherwise in writing, this contract 
 of insurance will be governed by English law. 
 
Thank 
 you for choosing Rapid Insure. 
 
Jon 
 Pardoe 
 Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Definitions
 All through this Policy there are certain words printed in bold type. 
 These words have special meanings which are listed below. 
 
 Bedroom 
 A room used as or originally built to be a bedroom, even if it is 
 now used for another purpose. 
 
 Buildings 
 The home shown in the Schedule and its fixtures and fittings, garden 
 walls, gates, hedges and fences, paths, drives and patios, carports, 
 permanent swimming pools built of brick, stone or concrete and hard 
 tennis courts. 
 There is no limit on the number of small garden sheds or small greenhouses 
 we will cover but we will not cover any one outbuilding for more than 
 £20,000. 
 Unless we agree otherwise, outbuildings do not include: 
 
- any 
 building which is not on a permanent foundation or base; 
 
- tree 
 houses 
 
- inflatable 
 buildings (whether over swimming pools or not); or any structure 
 which is made of canvas, PVC or any other non-rigid material; 
 
- any 
 building not within the boundary of the home unless we agree otherwise 
 in writing.
 
 Business equipment 
 Computers, keyboards, visual display units and printers, word processing 
 equipment, desk-top publishing units, fax machines, photocopiers, 
 typewriters, computer-aided design equipment, telecommunication 
 equipment (not including mobile phones) and office furniture owned 
 by you. 
 
 Contents 
 Household goods, high-risk property, money and personal belongings 
 you or your family own or are legally responsible for. This does 
 not include items held or used for business purposes other than 
 the items included in the business equipment definition above. 
 
 Credit cards 
 Charge, cheque, credit, debit and cash cards. 
 
 Excess 
 The amount you must pay towards each claim. 
 
 Family 
 The person you are married to or live with as if you were married, 
 children and any other person who permanently lives with you, other 
 than lodgers and any other paying guests.
 
 High-risk property 
 Jewellery, precious stones, articles made from gold, silver and 
 other precious metals, clocks, watches, furs, photographic equipment, 
 camcorders, business equipment, binoculars, telescopes, musical 
 instruments, curios, pictures and other works of art, rare and unusual 
 figurines and ornaments, personal stereos, guns, collections of 
 stamps, coins or medals. We regard pairs or sets of items as one 
 item. 
 
 Home 
 
 The property described in the Schedule, landlord's fixtures and 
 fittings for which you are responsible, and the property's garages 
 and outbuildings on the same site, used only by you and only for 
 domestic purposes. If there are no business visitors to the property 
 and no employees, one room may be used as an office. The main building 
 of your property must be made of brick, stone, flint or concrete 
 and with a slate or tile or metal or concrete roof.
 
 Incident 
 Any event which might lead to a claim. 
 
 Money 
 Cash, 
 cheques, postal and money orders, National Savings stamps and certificates, 
 unused current-issue postage stamps, travellers' cheques, travel 
 tickets, season tickets, luncheon vouchers and stamps used for paying 
 electricity, gas, tv licence or other utility bills.
 
 Period of insurance
 The period of insurance shown in the Schedule. 
 
 Personal belongings 
 Items normally worn or carried by you or your family in daily life 
 other than items held or used for business purposes. 
 
 Statement of fact 
 The statement of fact which you gave us through Rapidinsure.co.uk 
 Limited's website. 
 
 Schedule 
 The Schedule is issued with each new contract of insurance, when 
 you renew the policy and when the policy cover is changed. It shows 
 your name and address, the period of insurance, the sections of 
 this policy booklet which apply, the premium you have to pay, the 
 property which is insured, the sums insured and details of any extensions 
 or endorsements.
 
 Sum insured 
 The most we will pay for any one claim under any section (or its 
 extensions). This amount is shown in the Schedule. If this policy 
 covers your contents, the sum insured for contents must be high 
 enough to replace, as new, all the contents of your home, including 
 all high-risk property. If this policy covers your buildings, the 
 sum insured for buildings must be high enough to cover the cost 
 of rebuilding the building in the event of an incident that completely 
 destroys it. 
 
 The European area 
 Europe, Madeira, the Canary and Mediterranean Islands and countries 
 which border on the Mediterranean. 
 
 Unfurnished 
 A home with not enough furniture to be fully lived in.
 
 Unoccupied 
 A home not lived in or not intended to be lived in for more than 
 30 days in a row. 
 
 We, our, us 
 HSBC Insurance (Ireland) Limited
 C/O Wigham House
 Wakering Road
 Barking
 Essex
 IG11 8PB.
 
 You, our 
 The person or people shown in the Schedule 
 as 'the insured'. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Policy 
 conditions
 1. Basis of contract
 You have provided a statement of fact, and agree that the 
 information you have given us is correct. The contract between you 
 and us is made up of the statement of fact, this policy wording 
 and the Schedule. The insurance will not be valid if: 
 
 
- any 
 information you gave us was not true and accurate; 
 or 
 
- you 
 do not keep to the conditions of the Policy. If the insurance is 
 not valid you cannot make a claim.
 
 2. 
 Changes
 You 
 must immediately tell us via Rapidinsure.co.uk Limited about any 
 change which could affect this insurance. If you do not tell 
 us about any change to a material fact this insurance will 
 no longer be valid. (Material facts are facts which might influence 
 our decision to insure you, or the terms of the insurance. 
 If you are not sure whether a fact is material you should 
 tell us about it.) In particular you must tell us about: 
 
 
- any 
 change of address; 
 
- any 
 change of occupation for you or any other person named in your Schedule; 
 
 
- any 
 convictions or prosecutions, (other than for motoring offences) 
 relating to you or your family; 
 
- any 
 changes to your buildings that will increase the rebuilding costs; 
 
 
- any 
 increase in the value of your contents or personal belongings; 
 
- anyone, 
 other than a member of your family, coming to live with you; and 
 
 
- you 
 leaving the home unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row.
 
 Please remember that if you do not tell us about changes, it may 
 affect any claim you make. 
 
 3. Precautions
 You must take reasonable care:
 
 
- to 
 keep your home in a good state of repair; and 
 
- to 
 avoid or limit any loss, damage or injury. 
 
 4. Security discounts
 If 
 you have told us that your home is fitted with security 
 protections we will have allowed a discount from your premium. 
 These security protections must be kept in working order and used 
 at night and when there is no one in your home. 
 
 If you do not do this you will have to pay the first 
 £250 (as well as any other excess applying under your policy) of 
 any claim you make for theft or attempted theft.
 
 5. 
 Cancellation
 We can cancel this Policy at any time if we send seven 
 days' written notice to your last address known to us. 
 If you have not made a claim during the current period 
 of insurance you will be entitled to a refund of the part of 
 your premium which covers the rest of the period of insurance. 
 If you cancel the Policy, we will return any premium you have paid 
 for the rest of the period of insurance as long as you have 
 not made a claim during that period. 
 
 6. Other insurances
 If 
 you have any other insurance policies which cover the same 
 loss, damage or liability as this Policy we will pay only our 
 share of any claim.
 
 7. Fraudulent Claims
 We will not pay for any claim which is in any part fraudulent 
 or exaggerated, or if you or anyone acting for you 
 uses fraudulent means to get benefits under the Policy.
 
 8. How to make a claim
 If you want to make a claim you must do the following 
 as soon as possible. 
 
- Phone 
 our claims department on 01254 266260 to report the 
 incident and get a claim form. 
 
- Tell 
 the police as soon as reasonably possible if something is lost or 
 if you suspect theft or malicious damage. 
 
- Take 
 all practical steps to get back any property which has been lost. 
 
 
- Fill 
 in the claim form and send it back to us, with everything we 
 have asked for, within 30 days of the incident. 
 
- Immediately 
 send us any written claim which is made against you, 
 and give us full details of any verbal claims made against 
 you. 
 
- Take 
 reasonable action to protect the property from further loss or damage. 
 
 
 You must not do any of the following. 
 
- admit 
 or deny any responsibility for any incident. 
 
- Negotiate 
 or settle any claims made against you by anyone else, unless 
 we write and tell you that you can. 
 We can negotiate, defend or settle, in your name and 
 on your behalf, any claims made against you. 
 
 
 9. 
 How we will settle your claim
 We will settle your claim by replacing the items, paying 
 you their cash value, or repairing or rebuilding them, (we 
 will decide which). However, we will not pay more than the sum 
 insured shown in the Schedule.
 
 If your property is only partly damaged we will pay 
 for it to be repaired as long as the repair is actually done. If 
 the repair is not done we will pay you: 
 
- the 
 amount by which the property has gone down in value as a result 
 of the damage; or 
 
- the 
 estimated cost of the repair; 
 whichever is lower.
 
 You have to pay the excess shown in the Schedule. 
 
 
 When the loss happens, if the sum insured under any 
 section, or for any one item specified in the Schedule, is 
 less than the current cost of replacing the property as new, we 
 may pay only part of the value of the claim. 
 
 For example, if the sum insured is 80% of the cost 
 of replacing the property as new, we may decide to pay only 
 80% of your claim. 
 For high-risk property, we will pay up to one 
 third of the sum insured shown in the Schedule 
 under 'section 2 contents'. 
 
 Please see Condition 1 'Basis of the contract'. If the sum 
 insured shown on the Schedule is seriously below the 
 true amount at risk, we might consider that the information 
 you gave us was not true and accurate. In this event, 
 the insurance would not be valid. If the insurance is not valid, 
 you cannot make a claim. 
 
 Matching sets 
 We regard each separate item of a matching set of furniture, 
 sanitary fittings, soft furnishings or other fixtures and fittings 
 as a single item. We will pay only for lost or damaged items 
 and not for the cost of replacing, recovering or remodelling undamaged 
 pieces or pieces which have not been lost or damaged. If an item 
 in a set is physically damaged, the remaining pieces of the set 
 may lose some value, even if they have not been physically damaged 
 themselves. This loss of value is not covered by the Policy. 
 
 Matching carpets
 If you have a matching carpet or other floor covering in 
 more than one room or area we will regard each room or area 
 as being separate. We will pay only for damage to the carpet 
 in the room or area where the damage happened.
 
 Contents section and its extensions 
 We will make a deduction, if appropriate, for wear and tear 
 if you claim for the following. 
 
- Loss 
 of or damage to: 
 - clothes and household linen (unless you can prove they 
 are less than three years old); and 
 - pedal cycles (unless you can prove they are less than three 
 years old). 
 
 Buildings section 
 If you keep your buildings in good repair we 
 will pay the cost of repairing, replacing or rebuilding the buildings, 
 except for damage to: 
 
- flat, 
 felt roofs; 
 
- gates 
 or fences damaged by falling trees; where we will make a 
 deduction, if appropriate, for wear and tear. 
 
 Protecting sums insured 
 The sums insured under the buildings and contents 
 sections will not be reduced if you make a claim 
 
 
 10. General exceptions
 a The Policy does not cover loss, damage, injury, legal liability 
 directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by any of the 
 following. 
 
- Riot 
 or civil disturbance outside the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man 
 or the Channel Islands. 
 
- Riot, 
 civil disturbance, strikes, industrial action or malicious acts 
 committed in Northern Ireland by people acting on behalf of or in 
 connection with, any political organisation. 
 
- 
 Property being confiscated or detained by customs or other officials. 
 
 
- Pressure 
 waves caused by aircraft and other flying devices travelling at 
 sonic or supersonic speeds. 
 
- Ionising 
 radiation or radioactive contamination from any nuclear fuel or 
 nuclear waste arising from burning nuclear fuel. 
 
- The 
 radioactive, poisonous, explosive or other dangerous properties 
 of any nuclear equipment or nuclear part of that equipment. 
 
- War, 
 invasion, riot, revolution or any similar event. 
 
- Pollution 
 or contamination by naturally-occurring or man-made substances, 
 forces (such as radiation) or organisms or any combination of them, 
 if the pollution or contamination: 
 
- was 
 not caused by a sudden incident; 
 
- was 
 the result of an intentional act; 
 
- was 
 expected or should have been expected; 
 
- happened 
 before the policy started; 
 
- is 
 not reported within 30 days of the end of the period of 
 insurance in which it occurred; or 
 
- is 
 the result of any criminal or deliberate act by you or your family. 
 
 
 b We do not cover you for any kind of consequential loss 
 (that is any loss which happens as a result of, or is a side effect 
 of, the main thing for which you are insured). 
 
 c We do not cover any loss or damage that happens gradually 
 over a period of time. 
 
 d This Policy does not cover: 
 
- loss, 
 destruction or damage to any electrical appliance or computer software 
 caused by or arising from it failing to correctly recognise any 
 date; or 
 
- loss 
 in any equipment's function, performance or usefulness as a result 
 of any computer system or equipment, or similar device, failing 
 to recognise any date. 
 
 e This policy does not cover property more specifically insured 
 elsewhere. 
 
 
 
 Contract 
 of Insurance
 Section 1 - Buildings This 
 section only applies if shown in the Schedule 
 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 Your buildings are covered under this section.
 
 The most we will pay
 The most we will pay for loss of or damage to the buildings 
 is the sum insured for this section and £20,000 for 
 any one outbuilding.
 
 The causes covered
 The buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by any 
 of the following. 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 Fire or smoke (not arising from a gradual cause), explosion, lightning 
 or earthquake. 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 Scorching,singeing or .melting 
 
 
 2 
 Riot, civil commotion and labour or political disturbances and strikes. 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 Malicious damage. 
 3 
 Malicious damage caused: 
 - by you or your family; 
 - by a person lawfully allowed in your home; or 
 - when your home is unoccupied or unfurnished. 
 
 
 4 
 The buildings being hit by: 
 
- aircraft 
 or other flying devices or anything dropped from them; 
 
- vehicles 
 or trains; 
 
- animals; 
 
 
- falling 
 aerials or masts; or 
 
- falling 
 trees or branches. 
 
 4 
 
 - Damage caused by domestic animals, birds or pets 
 - The cost of cutting down all or part of a fallen tree and taking 
 it away, unless the fallen tree has damaged the buildings. 
 
 - Damage caused by cutting down all or part of a tree. 
 
 
 5 
 Storm or flood. 
 5 
 
 - Damage caused by frost. 
 - Damage to gates, hedges or fences. 
 - Damage caused by subsidence, ground heave or landslip (this damage 
 is covered under paragraph 6). 
 
 
 6 
 Subsidence or ground heave of the site the buildings stand 
 on or landslip. 
 
 6 
 - Damage caused to the buildings or their foundations by the 
 materials from which they are built shrinking or expanding. 
 - Damage caused to the buildings or their foundations by settlement, 
 unless the settlement is caused by subsidence of the site on which 
 the buildings stand. 
 - Damage caused by coastal or river erosion. 
 - Damage caused by faulty design or construction of foundations. 
 - Damage caused by demolition of or structural alterations or repairs 
 to the buildings. 
 - Damage to solid floor slabs or damage from solid floor slabs moving, 
 unless the foundations beneath the outside walls of the main building 
 are damaged at the same time and by the same cause. 
 - Damage to garden walls, gates, hedges, fences, paths, drives, patios, 
 swimming pools, ornamental pools, carports, outbuildings or tennis 
 courts, unless the main building is damaged at the same time. 
 - Damage caused by faulty workmanship or faulty materials. 
 - Damage which started before this Policy came into force. - Loss 
 of market value after repairs. 
 
 
 7 
 Water leaking from or freezing in any fixed domestic water or drainage 
 installation, heating installation, washing machine, fish tanks, dishwasher 
 or water bed. 
 7 
 
 - Damage when your home is unoccupied or unfurnished. 
 
 - Repairs to the pipework or other parts of the water or heating system. 
 
 - Damage by any gradual cause. 
 
 
 8 
 Theft or attempted theft. 
 
 
8
 - Theft or attempted theft: 
 - by you or any member of your family; 
 - when your home is unoccupied or unfurnished. 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 Oil leaking from a fixed domestic oil-fired heating system, including 
 smoke or smudge damage caused by evaporation from a faulty oil-fired 
 heating system. 
 9
 - Repairs to the pipework or other parts of the water or heating system. 
 
 - Damage by any gradual cause. 
 
 
 10 
 Liabilities. (Please see 'Liabilities' at the end of this wording.) 
 10 
 See 'Liabilities' at the end of this policy wording 
 
 
 
 
 Accidental 
 damage extension - Buildings - This extension applies only if shown 
 in the Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 The buildings are covered under this section
 
 The most we will pay
 The most we will pay is the sum insured under the buildings 
 section 
 
 The causes covered 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 Accidental damage 
 
 11 
 - Anything listed as not insured under the buildings section. 
 
 - Any cause already covered under the main buildings section. 
 
 - Damage caused by wear and tear or depreciation. 
 - Damage caused by movement of the land the buildings are on. 
 
 - Damage caused to or by any part of the buildings moving, 
 settling or shrinking. 
 - Damage caused by demolition of or structural alterations or repairs 
 to the buildings. 
 - Damage caused by insects, moths, vermin, parasites, wet rot, dry 
 rot, fungus, atmospheric conditions, light or other gradual causes. 
 
 - Electrical or mechanical breakdown. 
 - The cost of maintenance or routine redecoration. 
 - Damage caused by altering, redecorating, dyeing, washing, cleaning, 
 restoring, reproofing, adjusting, maintaining, repairing, dismantling 
 or misusing the building. 
 - Damage caused by frost. 
 - Damage caused by faulty workmanship, design or faulty materials. 
 
 - Damage caused by domestic animals, birds, vermin, insects or pets. 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 Extra Benefits 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident. 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 Necessary and reasonable expenses for rebuilding or repairing the 
 buildings as a result of damage insured under this section 
 including the following. 
 
- architects, 
 surveyors and legal fees. 
 
- the 
 cost of clearing debris from the site, clearing drains and demolishing 
 or shoring up the buildings. 
 
- 
 other costs necessary to keep to government or local authority requirements, 
 unless you had received notice to meet the requirements before 
 the damage occurred. 
 
 1 
 
 - The cost of preparing a claim. 
 - Any amount above the sum insured under this section. 
 
 
 
 2 
 The cost of repairing: 
 
- accidental 
 damage to the fabric of cables, underground pipes and drains (and 
 their inspection covers) serving your home; and 
 
- 
 accidental breakage of fixed glass and ceramic hobs built into cookers 
 that are permanent fixtures in your home; and 
 
- accidental 
 breakage of sanitary fixtures and fittings in your home. 
 
 
 2 
 
 - The cost of replacing undamaged items. 
 - Natural failure, wear and tear of drains 
 - Cleaning blocked drains, unless the blockage is caused by damage 
 to the fabric of the drains insured under this section. 
 - Damage caused by scratching or denting. 
 - Accidental breakage of fixed glass and sanitary fixtures when 
 your home is unoccupied or unfurnished. 
 
 
 3 
 Rent you would have received or are responsible for paying 
 while the buildings cannot be lived in because of damage insured 
 by this section. 
 We will also pay the reasonable costs of necessary alternative 
 accommodation for you, your family and your 
 domestic pets until you can live in your home. 
 
 The most we will pay in any one period of insurance 
 is 20% of the sum insured under the buildings 
 section. 
 
 
 
 4 
 If you have exchanged contracts to sell your home, 
 we will give the buyer the benefit of the insurance under this 
 section until the sale is completed, unless the buyer has insurance 
 cover elsewhere. 
 4 
 Any amount above the sum insured under this section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Section 
 2 - Contents - This section applies only if shown in the Schedule 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 You 
 and your family's contents are covered 
 when they are: 
 
- in 
 the home; 
 
- outside 
 but within the boundary of the home; 
 
- in 
 a building within the boundary of the home with an open front or 
 side, such as a carport; or 
 
- 
 except for business equipment, anywhere else in the 
 European Area when temporarily away from your 
 home. 
 
- Temporarily 
 in halls of residence or other term-time student accomodation 
 
 
 The most we will pay
 Inside the main building of your home, the contents 
 are covered, up to the sum insured which applies to 
 this section, depending on the following limits. 
 
 High-risk property other than business equipment 
 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for any one claim for high-risk property 
 is one third of the contents sum insured, but the most we 
 will pay for any one item of high-risk property is £1,500, 
 unless a different amount is specified in the Schedule. 
 
 Business equipment 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for any one claim for business equipment 
 is £5,000, but the the most we will pay for any one item 
 of business equipment is £1,500, unless a different 
 amount is shown in the Schedule. 
 Money 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for any one claim for loss of or damage 
 to money is £300. 
 Deeds and documents 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for any one claim for loss or damage to 
 deeds and documents is £500. 
 
 Metered oil or water 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for accidental loss of metered water or 
 oil in a domestic heating system is £1,000 
 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for property in the open air is £250 for 
 any one item or a total of £500 for any one claim. 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for property in outbuildings is £2,000 in 
 total. 
 
- The 
 most we will pay for property in outbuildings is increased 
 to £3,000 if all of the following apply: 
 - the outbuilding is built of brick, stone or concrete and is kept 
 in good repair; 
 - outside doors are fitted with 5-lever locks; 
 - the windows can be locked with keys; 
 - up-and-over doors can be locked with keys or double doors can 
 be locked with keys and mortise bolts at the top and bottom of one 
 of the doors; 
 - you maintain the locks in full working order; 
 - you use the locks at night and when nobody is in the home. 
 
 
 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 
 The 
 excess shown on the Schedule for every incident. 
 
 - Interior decorations. 
 - Anything insured under another policy or more specifically insured 
 elsewhere in this Policy. 
 - Any aircraft, boat, caravan, motor vehicle or trailer, or any accessories 
 or contents in them or attached to them. 
 - Animals, birds, fish. 
 - Growing trees, shrubs or plants. 
 - Any item taken out of your home to sell or exhibit 
 or to be kept in a furniture depository. (A furniture depository is 
 a commercial furniture warehouse which protects the items stored from 
 theft, damage or weather conditions.) 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 The causes covered
 The contents are covered for loss or damage caused by any of 
 the following. 
 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident. 
 
 
 
 
 1 Fire or smoke (not arising from gradual causes), explosion, lightning 
 or earthquake. 
 1 
 Scorching, singeing or melting. 
 
 
 2 
 Riot, civil commotion and labour or political disturbances which happen 
 in the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands. 
 
 
 
 3 
 Malicious damage which happens in the United Kingdom, the Isle of 
 Man or the Channel Islands. 
 3 
 Malicious damage caused: 
 - by you or your family; 
 - by a person lawfully allowed to be in your home; or 
 
 - when your home is unoccupied or unfurnished. 
 
 
 
 4 
 Your home being hit by: 
 
- aircraft 
 or other flying devices, or anything dropped from them; 
 
- vehicles 
 or trains; 
 
- animals 
 or insects; 
 
- falling 
 aerials or masts or satellite dishes; or 
 
- falling 
 trees or branches. 
 
 4
 - Damage caused by domestic animals birds or pets. 
 - The cost of cutting down all or part of a fallen tree and taking 
 it away, unless the fallen tree has damaged your contents.
 - Damage caused by cutting down all or part of a tree. 
 
 
 5 
 Storm or flood. 
 5 
 Storm or flood damage to property away from your home 
 and not in a building. 
 
 
 6 
 Subsidence or ground heave of the site your home stands on, or landslip. 
 
 6
 - Damage caused by the foundations of the buildings or the 
 materials from which they are built shrinking or expanding.
 - Damage caused by coastal or river erosion 
 - Damage caused by faulty design or construction of the buildings 
 or their foundations. 
 - Damage caused by demolition of or structural alterations or repair 
 to the buildings. 
 
 
 7 
 Water leaking from any fixed domestic water or heating installation, 
 washing machine, dishwasher, fish tanks or water bed. 
 7
 - Damage caused gradually. 
 - Loss or damage while your property is unoccupied for more than 30 
 days in a row. 
 
 
 8 
 Theft or attempted theft (depending on the limits already shown under 
 'The most we will pay'). 
 
- 
 Money is covered away from your home only if it is stolen from a 
 building and force was used to get into or out of the building. 
 
 
- All 
 other property is covered away from your home only if stolen: 
 - from a home or building you or your family are working or living 
 in temporarily; 
 - from any other building if force was used to get in or out; 
 - from any bank or safe deposit, or while you or any member of your 
 family is taking the items to or from the bank or safe deposit. 
 
 
 8 
 Theft or attempted theft:
 - by deception, unless entry only is gained by deception; 
 - by you or any member of your family;
 - when your home is unoccupied or unfurnished; 
 or 
 - when your home or any part of it is lent or sublet 
 to or occupied by someone who is not a member of your family, 
 unless force is used to enter or leave the building. 
 
 
 9 
 Oil leaking from a fixed domestic oil-fired heating system, including 
 smoke or smudge damage caused by evaporation from a faulty oil-fired 
 heating system. 
 
 
 
 10 
 Accidental damage to television sets (and their aerials), radios, 
 audio equipment, video recording equipment or personal computers. 
 10
 - Damage to records, compact discs, computer disks, cassettes or tapes. 
 
 - Damage caused by computer viruses.
 - Damage caused by cleaning, maintaining, adjusting, repairing, dismantling 
 or misusing the item. 
 - Damage caused by wear and tear or deterioration. 
 - Electrical or mechanical breakdown. 
 - Damage from light, or from atmospheric or climatic conditions. - 
 Damage caused by scratching or denting. 
 
 
 11 
 Accidental breakage, in your home, of: - fixed glass 
 in furniture (but not glass in pictures or clocks); - glass shelves; 
 - glass tops to furniture; - fixed glass in mirrors; or - ceramic 
 hobs and ceramic tops in free-standing cookers. 
 
 
 
 12 
 Accidental loss of metered water or of oil in domestic heating system. 
 12 
 Any amount over £1,000. 
 
 
 13 
 Liabilities. (Please see 'Liabilities' at the end of this Policy wording). 
 
 13 
 See 'Liabilities' at the end of this policy wording. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accidental 
 damage extension - Contents - This extension applies only if shown 
 in the Schedule 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 The causes covered 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident. 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 Accidental damage 
 14 
 
 - Anything listed as not covered under the contents section. 
 
 - Any risk already covered under the contents section. 
 - Damage to clothing, including furs. 
 - Damage to contact or corneal lenses. 
 - Any amount over £250 for damage to glass, china, porcelain, earthenware, 
 stone or other fragile material while it is being handled or used 
 for domestic purposes. 
 - Damage from wear and tear or depreciation. 
 - Damage caused by moths, vermin, parasites, atmospheric conditions, 
 light or other gradual causes. - Damage caused by scratching or denting. 
 
 - Electric or mechanical breakdown. 
 - Property being confiscated or detained by customs or other authorities. 
 
 - Damage caused by cleaning, washing, dyeing, restoring, reproofing, 
 adjusting, maintaining, repairing, or misusing the item. 
 - Damage that happens when any part of your home is 
 lent let or sublet to or occupied by someone who is not a member of 
 your family. 
 - Damage caused by domestic animals birds or pets. - Damage to food. 
 
 - Damage caused by computer viruses. 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 Extra benefits 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident. 
 
 
 
 
 1	
 If you cannot live in your home because of damage 
 insured under this section: 
 
- we 
 will pay the reasonable cost of necessary alternative accommodation 
 for you, your family and domestic pets until 
 you can live in your home again; and 
 
- if 
 you are a tenant, we will also pay any rent that you 
 have to pay while you are not living in your home. 
 
 
 The most we will pay in any period of insurance 
 is 20% of the sum insured under this section. 
 
 1	
 Any amount above 20% of the sum insured shown on the schedule for 
 Section 2 Contents 
 
 
 2	
 We will pay the cost of replacing and installing locks on outside 
 doors if your keys have been lost or damaged by the risks insured 
 under this section.
 
 The most we will pay in any period of insurance 
 is £250. 
 2	
 Any amount over £250 
 
 
 3 
 If you ask us (within a reasonable time after you 
 have moved to a new home in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands 
 or the Isle of Man) we can arrange for this policy to cover 
 your contents at your new address. All policy conditions, 
 including those relating to security devices which you must 
 have or which we give you a premium discount for, will 
 continue to apply unless we agree otherwise in writing. 
 
 You may have to pay an extra premium to transfer your 
 contents cover to a new address. 
 
 
 
 4 
 If your contents are professionally packed and carried 
 we will insure you against loss or damage to the contents 
 while they are: 
 
- being 
 transported between your old address and your new 
 address; 
 
- on 
 their way to or from a furniture store; and 
 
- being 
 loaded or unloaded. 
 
 4 
 
 - Breakage of glass or other fragile items. 
 - Property in storage. 
 - Any amount above the sum insured shown on the schedule for Section 
 2 Contents 
 
 
 5 
 We will pay £5,000 if you or any member of your 
 family are killed by a fire or assault in your home, 
 if the death happens within 12 months of the event. 
 
 
 
 6 
 If you are a tenant of your home we will 
 pay for loss of or damage to interior decorations for which you are 
 responsible and your home improvements caused by the 
 risks listed in this section 
 6 
 In any insurance period, no more than 10% of the sum insured under 
 the contents section for all claims for loss of or damage to 
 interior decorations or your home improvements. 
 
 
 7 
 We will automatically increase your sum insured 
 for contents by 10% during the month of December, and for 30 days 
 before and 30 days after the wedding day of you or a member 
 of your family. During this period we will insure 
 the wedding gifts against loss or damage when they are; 
 
 
- in 
 the building where the wedding reception is held; or 
 
- being 
 transported between your home and the reception. 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 Loss or damage to your contents as a result of causes 1 to 
 11 of this section when they are temporarily moved from your home 
 to a university, college or hall of residence in the British Isles. 
 - 
 The total excess shown in your schedule under section 
 2 for additional cover.
 - Any amount over £2,000.
 - Contents not in a building.
 - Loss or damage by theft or attempted theft unless force and violence 
 are used to get into or out of the room. 
 
 
 
 
 Frozen 
 food extension - This extension only applies if shown in the schedule 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 The causes covered:
 1 Damage to food in any fridge or deep freezer caused by: 
 - a rise in temperature; or 
 - contamination by refrigerant or refrigerant fumes. 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 The excess 
 shown on the Schedule for every incident. 
 
 
 1 
 - Any amount over the sum insured shown on the Schedule. 
 
 - Damage caused by your power supply being cut off by the gas or electricity 
 supplier. 
 - Damage caused by a strike, lock-out or an industrial dispute. 
 - Damage to food if the deep freeze cabinet or compressor unit is 
 more than 10 years old. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal 
 belongings extension - This extension only applies if shown in the 
 schedule 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 You and your family's personal belongings, 
 money and credit cards are covered in The 
 European area, or anywhere else in the world for up 
 to 60 days in any period of insurance. 
 What 
 is not insured
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident 
 
 
 
 
 The 
 causes covered
 1 Loss of or damage to personal belongings, money 
 and credit cards. 
 - Financial loss if your credit card is lost 
 or stolen and someone else uses it. 
 
 We will provide this cover only if: 
 - you reported the loss or theft to the local police within 
 24 hours of discovering the loss or theft; 
 - you immediately reported the loss or theft of any credit 
 card to the credit card company; and 
 - you kept to the conditions of the credit card.
 
 
 The most we will pay
 - For personal belongings the most we will pay 
 for any one claim is the amount shown in the Schedule. 
 - The most we will pay for any one item is £1,500 (a pair or 
 set of items is regarded as a single item, a bag of golf clubs, whether 
 or not by the same manufacturer, is regarded as a set). 
 - For money, the most we will pay for any one claim 
 is £300. 
 - For credit cards, the most we will pay for 
 any one claim is £500. 
 - For records, compact discs, cassettes, computer disks and tapes, 
 the most we will pay is £100. 
 1 
 
 - Breakage of sports equipment when it is being used. 
 - Breakage of reeds, strings or drum skins of musical instruments. 
 
 - Damage from wear and tear or loss of value. 
 - Damage caused by moths, vermin, parasites, insects, wet rot, dry 
 rot, fungus, atmospheric conditions, light or other gradual causes. 
 
 - Damage caused by cleaning, washing, dyeing, restoring, reproofing, 
 adjusting, maintaining, repairing, dismantling or misusing the item. 
 
 - Damage caused by scratching or denting. 
 - Electrical or mechanical breakdown. 
 - Property being confiscated or held by customs or other authorities. 
 
 - Loss happening within the home to items which are not high-risk 
 property. 
 - Theft from motor vehicles left by the owner or current driver unless 
 the item or any bag, box or other form of wrapping containing or covering 
 it is hidden from view and all access points to the vehicle are securely 
 locked. 
 - Pedal Cycles.
 - Furniture, household goods, stock or provisions and business goods. 
 
 - Trees, shrubs or plants growing in the garden. 
 - Motor vehicles, trailers, caravans, boats or the accessories or 
 associated equipment belonging to any of these. 
 - Camping equipment. 
 - Documents and securities. 
 - Portable televisions, mobile phones, car audio or car audio-visual 
 equipment and car phones. 
 - China or glass (except spectacles). 
 - Contact or corneal lenses. 
 - Animals. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pedal 
 Cycles Extension - This extension only applies if shown in the schedule 
 
 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 You and your family's pedal cycles are covered 
 in the United Kingdom, Channel Islands and Isle of Man. 
 What 
 is not insured
 
 The excess shown on the Schedule for every incident 
 
 
 
 
 The 
 most we will pay
 The most we will pay for pedal cycles is the amount shown in the Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 The 
 causes covered
 1 Accidental loss or damage. 
 1 
 
 - Motorised pedal cycles
 - Pedal cycles being used for racing, pacemaking or testing of any 
 kind or while practising for any of them. 
 - Pedal cycles not being kept at home. 
 - Theft or attempted theft of a pedal cycle when left in a public 
 place without being secured by a chain and padlock or other equivalent 
 lock. 
 - cuts or bursts to tyres. 
 - loss or damage to accessories or parts of pedal cycles unless the 
 pedal cycle is stolen or damaged at the same time. 
 - damage caused by wear and tear or loss of value. 
 - damage caused by moths, vermin, parasites, atmospheric conditions, 
 light or other gradual causes. 
 - damage caused by cleaning, washing, restoring, adjusting, maintaining, 
 repairing or misusing the cycle. 
 - Mechanical breakdown. 
 - The pedal cycle being confiscated or detained. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 If 
 only buildings are insured under this Policy, you are 
 covered only under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 below. 
 If both buildings and contents are insured, you 
 are covered under paragraphs 1 to 6. 
 If only contents are insured, you are insured under paragraphs 
 2, 4, 5 and 6.
 
 Definitions
 In 
 this section injury includes death, disease and illness and damage 
 includes loss.
 
 Who is insured
 The cover applies to you and your family (or 
 your personal representatives if you die), for any liability 
 you may have. 
 
 
 What 
 is insured
 
 1 Public and personal liability (buildings) 
 We insure you against your legal liability as 
 the owner of the buildings, including their land, to pay damages and 
 expenses for bodily injury caused to any person or damage caused to 
 property. This cover insures you against injury or damage occurring 
 anywhere in the world during the period of insurance. 
 
 We will also pay other costs and expenses we agree to 
 in writing. 
 
 2 Public and personal liability (contents) 
 We insure you against your legal liability as 
 the occupier of your home, including its land, to pay damages and 
 expenses for bodily injury caused to any person or damage caused to 
 property. This covers you against injury or damage occurring 
 anywhere in the world during the period of insurance. 
 
 We will also pay other costs and expenses we agree to 
 in writing 
 
 3 Defective premises indemnity (only if buildings are 
 insured) 
 We insure you against your legal liability to 
 pay damages and expenses for bodily injury to any person or damage 
 to property arising from faulty work on any private home (within 
 the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands) which 
 you sold or moved out of before the injury or damage occurred. 
 
 
 This defective premises insurance continues for seven years from the 
 date when this Policy ends or is cancelled. The insurance will not 
 apply if the Policy is declared invalid or your liability is 
 covered by a more recent Policy.
 
 4 Unpaid damages We will pay the unpaid amount of any award 
 made in your favour for compensation for bodily injury or damage 
 to property. This compensation must have been awarded by a court in 
 the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands. We 
 will pay the amount if: 
 
- you 
 have not received full payment within three months of the date of 
 the award; 
 
- the 
 bodily injury or damage occurred in the United Kingdom, the Isle 
 of Man or the Channel Islands; 
 
 5 Liability for domestic employees 
 We insure you against your legal liability 
 to pay damages, costs and expenses for bodily injury which happens 
 to any domestic employee during the course of their work or which 
 is caused by you during the period of insurance. 
 
 We will also pay other costs and expenses we agree 
 to in writing.
 Cover applies anywhere in the world if the contract of service was 
 entered into in the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man or the Channel 
 Islands. 
 
 6. Tenant's liability 
 We insure you against your legal liability 
 for: 
 
- 
 damage to the structure of your home, or to the landlord's 
 fixtures, fittings and interior decorations, caused by the risks 
 covered under the contents section (unless the home 
 is unoccupied or unfurnished); 
 
- the 
 cost of repairing accidental damage to the fabric of the cables, 
 underground pipes and drains (and their inspection covers) which 
 serve your home; 
 
- accidental 
 breakage of fixed glass in windows, doors, fanlights, skylights, 
 greenhouses, conservatories and verandas; and 
 
- accidental 
 breakage of fixed sanitary fittings and bathroom fittings. 
 
 The 
 most we will pay
 The 
 most we will pay under this section for any one claim, or series 
 of claims arising from one cause, is £2,000,000 plus any other costs 
 and expenses we agree to in writing, depending on the following 
 limits. 
 
- For 
 liability to domestic employees, the most we will pay for 
 any one claim, or series of claims arising from one cause, is £10,000,000 
 including any other costs and expenses we agree to in writing. 
 
 
- For 
 tenant's liability, the most we will pay for all claims arising 
 in any one period of insurance is 20% of the sum 
 insured under the contents section. 
 
 What 
 is not insured 
 
 We will not pay for any claims under cover 1, 2, 3 or 4 for the following. 
 
 
- Injury 
 to you or a member of your family. 
 
- Injury 
 to anyone who is employed by you under a contract of service or 
 apprenticeship and who is injured during the course of their employment. 
 
 
- Damage 
 to property which is owned, leased, let, rented, lent, or entrusted 
 to you. 
 
- Injury 
 or damage arising from you owning or using: 
 - mechanically powered vehicles, except garden machinery or pedal 
 cycles; 
 - aircraft, except model aircraft having a wing span of less than 
 10 feet; 
 - watercraft, except hand propelled boats, windsurfers, sailboards 
 or model watercraft; or 
 - firearms, except legally held sporting guns used for sporting 
 purposes. 
 
- Injury 
 or damage arising from hunting or from racing of any kind, except 
 on foot. 
 
- Injury 
 or damage arising from: 
 - any wilful or malicious act; or 
 - your business, trade, profession or employment. 
 
- Any 
 injury arising from an illness or disease you pass onto someone 
 else. 
 
- Any 
 Liability you have under a contract, unless you would have had that 
 liability without the contract 
 
- Injury 
 or damage arising from owning, possessing or using any dog referred 
 to in the Dangerous Dogs Act 1999. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General 
 Information
 Material 
 Facts
 We 
 accepted your application for insurance because the information and 
 facts that you gave about yourself allowed us to assess the chance 
 of a loss occurring, based on statistics that we have gathered over 
 many years. The information enabled us to decide what premium to charge 
 you and what terms and conditions should apply to your cover. 
 The information that helps us to assess the risk of a loss arising 
 are called 'material facts'. If any of these 'material facts' were 
 incorrect, or have changed, or if you have not told us about something 
 that might have influenced our assessment, and received our written 
 agreement to the change or extra information, your policy may not 
 be valid. If the policy is not valid, you cannot make a claim. If 
 you are not sure whether a fact is material you should tell us about 
 it. 
 As a guide, below we have listed a few examples of changes to material 
 facts. The list does not cover all possible changes. If you are not 
 sure whether a fact is material, you should tell us about it immediately. 
 
 Example a The contract of insurance covers you if your home is unoccupied 
 for up to 30 days in a row. You have told us that your home will not 
 be left unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row. If this changes 
 and your home will be left unoccupied for longer than 30 days in a 
 row, you must tell us. This is a material fact as it affects our assessment 
 of the risk. If the home is left unoccupied for more than 30 days, 
 the chances of a loss arising increase and any damage is likely to 
 be greater than it would be if the property were occupied. So our 
 assessment of the risk would be different for an unoccupied property.
 Example b The property covered by this policy is shown on your Schedule 
 of insurance. If you change your address, this may influence the premium 
 or the cover we are prepared to provide. You may need to have a higher 
 level of security, for example special locks are a condition for cover 
 in some areas of the country. So a change of address is a material 
 fact and you should report it to us before you move. 
 Example c The value of the contents insured is shown on your Schedule 
 under the heading 'Sum Insured'. The sum insured for contents must 
 be enough to replace all the contents of your home, including all 
 high-risk property, as new. If you increase the total value of the 
 contents of your home above the sum insured shown on the Schedule, 
 you may need to pay a higher premium or provide better security at 
 your home. In certain cases the policy may no longer be suitable for 
 you. So an increase in the value of your home's contents is a material 
 fact that should be reported to us. 
 Security
 Burglary is a very unpleasant experience. We can help our customers 
 overcome the financial loss, but we cannot compensate them for the 
 loss of items which have sentimental value and cannot be replaced. 
 Preventing a burglary is the best course of action, and we recommend 
 that all our policyholders use the security shown below. 
 a) 
 
- A 
 5-lever mortise deadlock (or equivalent) on the final exit door. 
 
 
- A 
 5-lever mortise deadlock or key-operated security bolt fitted at 
 the top and bottom of all other external doors. 
 
- A 
 key-operated security lock on all sliding patio doors. 
 
- On 
 double French doors, two key-operated bolts on each door, locking 
 into the top and bottom of the door frame. 
 
- A 
 key-operated window lock or locking handle on any window or other 
 opening of at least 9 inches by 9 inches which is on the ground 
 floor or can be reached without using a ladder. 
 b) An intruder alarm system, ideally one maintained by Nacoss or 
 SSAIB. 
 
 Customer Satisfaction
 If you are dissatisfied with any aspect of the service you have 
 received, please write to:
 
 The 
 Customer Liaison Manager
 Rapidinsure.co.uk Limited
 Phoenix Park
 Blakewater Road
 Blackburn
 BB1 5SJ
 
 Please quote either your policy number or claim number in all correspondence 
 so that the matter may
 be resolved to your satisfaction as quickly as possible.
 If you remain dissatisfied with any aspect of the administration 
 of your insurance, please contact:
 
 The Compliance Officer
 HSBC Insurance (Ireland) Limited
 C/O Wigham House
 Wakering Road
 Barking
 Essex
 IG11 8PB
 Telephone: 0208 911 5600
 
 Should your complaint remain unresolved, HSBC Insurance (Ireland) 
 Limited is a member of the
 Personal Insurance Arbitration Service (PIAS). In the event of a 
 dispute, you may refer the matter to an
 Independent Arbitrator, appointed by the President or Vice President 
 of the Chartered Institute of
 Arbitrators under the Scope and Rules of the PIAS. There is no cost 
 for you using this scheme, save for
 the cost of preparing and submitting your case.
 
 Further details can be obtained from HSBC Insurance (Ireland) Limited 
 or from the Chartered Institute of
 Arbitrators at 12 Bloomsbury Square, London WC1A 2LP.
 
 Contractors (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 Clarification
 A person who is not a third party to this insurance has no right 
 under the Contracts (Right of Third
 Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any terms of this insurance, but this 
 does not affect any right or remedy of
 a third party which exists or is available under this act.
 
 English Law
 The parties are free to choose the law applicable to this Insurance 
 Contract. Unless specifically agreed
 to the contrary this insurance shall be subject to English Law.
 
 Data 
 Protection Act
 It is understood by the insured that any information provided to 
 us regarding you will be processed by
 us, in compliance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act 
 1998, for the purpose of providing
 insurance and handling claims, if any, which may necessitate providing 
 such information to third parties.
 HSBC Insurance (Ireland) Limited is a member of the General Insurance 
 Standards Council (&#147;GISC&#148;).
 Rapidinsure.co.uk Ltd.is a member of the General Insurance Standards 
 Council.
 
 
 Tell us about changes which affect your insurance
 You 
 must tell us as soon as possible about any changes which might affect 
 your insurance, including:
 
 
 
- change 
 of address 
 
- change 
 in your occupation or the occupation of anyone else named in 
 your schedule 
 
- convictions 
 or prosecutions (other than motoring offences) involving you 
 or a member of your household 
 
- additions 
 to your buidings that affect their rebuilding costs 
 
- somebody 
 outside your family coming to live with you 
 
- leaving 
 your home unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive days 
 
 
 Tips when making a claim
 
 Check your policy to see if the loss or damage is covered
 Call the claims helpline as soon as possible on 01254 266260 
 so we can arrange for one of our approved repairers to contact you
 Do what you can to protect your property from loss or damage and, 
 if that includes making temporary repairs, keep your bill to claim 
 the cost back later
 Tell the police immediately about any loss, theft or malicious damage
 If someone is claiming against you, don't admit liability or offer 
 to pay the claim
 Send Berkeley Morgan any writ, summons, letter, claim or other document 
 as soon as you receive it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
©RapidInsure.co.uk and associates
All visitors to our website are covered by our Terms of Service
