
	
	Customer Support Area - Claims Code
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Supporting 
 the 
 right kind of buzz
 
 
 
 
 We 
 sponsor The Global
 Rock Challenge 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ansvar
 Sponsorship
 
 
 
 Making 
 a real difference
 to other 
 
 
 
 
 Ansvar 
 support 
 charity award
 
 
 
 And 
 the winners are...
 Kidscope 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ansvar 
 sponsorship &#150; making a real difference
 
 Ansvar have always made it a cornerstone of their ethical positioning 
 to associate with responsible lifestyles and to give tangible 
 support to organisations which work to reduce the harm that 
 alcohol and drugs do in society.
 
 Today&#146;s rapidly changing and competitive business climate 
 perhaps leaves little room for sentiment but this philosophy 
 remains in force today&#133;as demonstrated by these two examples 
 of current sponsorship projects.
 
 Supporting 
 the right kind of buzz
 
 Ansvar have announced that they are to sponsor The Global 
 Rock Challenge in 2001.
 
 Established in Australia in 1980, the Challenge addresses the 
 most emotive social issues of the day&#133;by delivering healthy 
 lifestyle, drug free and crime prevention messages to the heart 
 of the teenage culture. The core message is that young people 
 can have a great time without recourse to artificial stimulants.
 
 The Challenge is a national inter-schools competition capturing 
 the imagination of young people by enabling them to use music, 
 dance, costumes and media images familiar to young people and 
 perform to professional standards.
 
 With 120 area competitions throughout the UK involving over 
 10,000 students, the event culminates in two regional finals 
 at the Sheffield Arena and the Albert Hall in May 2001. Previousl 
 sponsors of the UK Challenge have included BT and Wella Haircare.
 
 Ansvar&#146;s General Manager Paul Godfrey commented: &#147;With 
 extensive media coverage at local and national level, there 
 is no doubt that this sponsorship is a sound commercial proposition. 
 But more important is that the aims of the Challenge are in 
 total harmony with our ethical stance and declared intention 
 of supporting organisations who work hard to reduce the damaging 
 effects of drug and alcohol in society.&#148;
 
 
 
 Global 
 Rock Challenge hits the road
 
 In the last issue of Ansvar News we reported that Ansvar had 
 become th main sponsor for the Global Rock Challenge. Essentially 
 this is a performing arts national inter-schools competition 
 organised by the charity &#147;Be Your Best Foundation&#148;. 
 The objective is to promote healthy lifestyle messages to school 
 teenagers.
 
 The regional events are already under way in theatres and other 
 large venues across the country.
 
 Ian Sadler, Ansvar Field Operations Manager, reports on this 
 years competition.
 
 I am very excited about Ansvar&#146;s involvement with this 
 worthy project. Ansvar are the main sponsor and are given a 
 very high profile with large banners on prominent display promoting 
 the Ansvar name. Other sponsors include Panasonic, Wella, Daihatsu, 
 Sewing World.
 
 The main aim of Rock Challenge is to demonstrate that young 
 people can have a great time without the need for drugs or alcohol 
 and it is good to see some kids mention this when they are interviewed 
 after their performances.
 
 Each presentation is 8 minutes ling and the school act and dance 
 to a soundtrack that are made up by the schools and edited by 
 the local radio stations. The performances are very good and 
 the costumes and sets well put together.
 
 Each event is generally very well supported by local authorities 
 including the police. Local radio stations also help to raise 
 awareness of the initiative and a panel of professional judges 
 are there to assess the performances.
 
 In addition to the main winner there are a number of prizes 
 such as &#147;Best Concept&#148; and &#147;Best Set Design&#148; 
 . The sponsors representatives line up on the stage for the 
 presentations so each of us have had our moments in a packed 
 theatre going to the microphone and presenting the prize in 
 front of many hundreds of people.
 
 Congratulations go to all schools who have taken part in this 
 years competition, especially to the Northern and Southern Champions 
 - Ashfield Girls High School from Belfast and King Richard School 
 from Portsmouth.
 
 
 Spring Harvest 2000
 
 The major multi-denominational Christian festivals, took place 
 this year at Minehead and Skegness &#150; Ansvar&#146;s sponsorship 
 was behind a series of seminars dealing with drug prevention, 
 rehabilitation and education, which were attended by nearly 
 1,400 people.
 
 Ansvar supported this initiative by funding the running costs 
 of the seminar speakers of the Evangelical Coalition on Drugs 
 (ECOD) and also the administrative costs of another partnership 
 organisation Hope UK, a Christian charity working to promote 
 drug-free lifestyles.
 
 A fundamental purpose of these seminars was to facilitate a 
 network of speakers and expertise to spread the message at local 
 level through churches and Christian organisations. Early evaluation 
 indicates that this objective is certainly being achieved.
 
 The Salvation 
 Army&#146;s National Addiction Service 
 is another beneficiary, which focuses on hard drug usage in 
 particular. Ansvar are committed to significant financial assistance 
 to the developing biomedical service which aims to provide a 
 unique monitoring and biomedical profiling system of the socially 
 marginalised in a range of supported accommodation and specific 
 monitoring of clients undertaking recovery programmes. The scheme 
 will provide a unique insight into drug and alcohol related 
 programmes in the community and facilitate client support by 
 an improved approach in the care of individuals.
 
 Paul Godfrey, Ansvar&#146;s General Manager, commented: &#147;There 
 is no doubt that sponsorship of this nature helps to raise our 
 profile within important niche markets. But more important for 
 us is the opportunity to use our ethical stance to support projects 
 that make a real difference to people&#146;s lives.&#148;
 
 Ansvar sponsorship for 
 Charity of the Year
 
 UK Charity Awards 2001
 
 Ansvar have announced that they are to sponsor, for the second 
 year running, the major category at the UK Charity Awards, the 
 inaugural scheme hosted by Charity Times Magazine, recognising 
 the excellence in the management and co-ordination of charitable 
 activities.
 The Awards ceremony takes place again in September and ANSVAR 
 NEWS will be reporting full details shortly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
