
James Hampden Freedom Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
This Policy contains important conditions, exclusions and 
limitations relating to the attachment and duration of cover in 
respect of each and every Period of Travel to be insured hereunder; 
particular reference should be made to the General Exclusions 
following, the General Provisions and Conditions within, and the 
Other Conditions, Exclusions and Limitations of Liability towards the 
end of this document.
 
 
General Exclusions
 
Except where the Underwriters' specific prior agreement has been 
obtained, no cover shall attach under this Insurance in respect of, 
and for the entire duration of, any trip that is:
 
 (a) expected at the date of its booking or commencement to exceed 31 
days in duration, or
 
 (b) booked or commenced during convalescence following serious injury 
or illness, or
 
 (c) expected at the date of its booking or commencement to involve 
hazardous or non-conventional holiday or business activities, or
 
 (d) booked or undertaken by an Insured Person aged under 18 years at 
its commencement date unless, for the entire duration of such trip, 
he is to be accompanied by another person insured hereunder and aged 
over 18 years at the said date.
 
 (e) Undertaken for the purposes of business travel.
 
 
Premium quotations for such excluded trips may be obtainable from 
Underwriters; full details should be submitted for their 
consideration. Examples of activities considered hazardous and/or 
non-conventional are:
 
 international overland journeys in Asia, Africa or South America 
(other than by rail)
 
 motorcycle touring
 
 professional entertaining
 
 manual work for gain or reward
 
 scuba diving
 
 other occupational, sporting, training or recreational activity 
carrying a generally recognised risk of serious injury.
 
 
Any medical condition you or an immediate relative or travelling 
companion have at the time of purchasing this insurance which has 
not been reported to us and been agreed and confirmed in writing.
 
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
To pay up to a maximum limit of £3 million in respect of the 
following expenses, incurred within the Period of Insurance and the 
twelve months' period subsequent to its expiry:
 
(a) Medical and Repatriation Expenses
 
 Medical, hospital and treatment expenses (including associated travel 
expenses) incurred outside the United Kingdom and additional hotel 
and repatriation expenses necessarily incurred as the result of the 
Insured Person becoming ill or sustaining accidental bodily injury 
during the Period of Travel, including compulsory quarantine and 
emergency dental treatment.
 
(b) Air Ambulance Charter
 
 The charter of an air ambulance or the special use of air transport 
(including qualified attendants) if agreed by prior 
consultation between the Insured Person's attending physicians 
and the Underwriters appointed advisors as being 
necessary for the transportation repatriation of the Insured 
Person.
 
(c) Escorting Relative or Friend
 
 Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses of a relative or friend 
(not necessarily an Insured Person) if he becomes severely 
incapacitated during the Period of Travel.
 
(d) Hospital Inconvenience Benefit
 
 £10 for each completed 24 hour period that the Insured Person 
spends as a hospital in-patient outside the United Kingdom as the 
result of his sustaining accidental bodily injury or becoming ill 
during the Period of Travel, up to a maximum of £600 in all, 
payable in addition to the indemnity under Subsection 1(a).
 
(e) Emergency Return to the United Kingdom
 
 Additional repatriation expenses necessarily incurred by the Insured 
Person consequent upon any of the following occurrences during the 
Period of Travel:
 
 (i) the death, serious illness or injury of the Insured Person's 
relative, fiance(e) or business colleague necessitating the 
Insured Person's presence in the United Kingdom.
 
 (ii) the death, serious illness or injury of an accompanying Insured 
Person, or the repatriation of such person as provided for in 
paragraph (i).
 
(f) Alteration of Itinerary
 
 Reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred by 
the Insured Person consequent upon his being the victim of hijack, 
kidnap or the like terrorist or criminal act, or upon the 
cancellation of publicly licensed passenger transport services caused 
by strike, industrial action, hijack, terrorist act, criminal act, 
bomb scare, riot, civil commotion, fire, flood, earthquake, 
landslide, avalanche, adverse weather conditions, accident or 
mechanical breakdown, provided that these occur or commence during 
the Period of Travel.
 
(g) Funeral Expenses
 
 Funeral expenses and/or the cost of transporting the remains or ashes 
of the Insured Person to his former place of residence in the United 
Kingdom if he dies during the Period of Travel.
 
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption
 
(a) Cancellation, Curtailment and "Get you There" Expenses
 
 To pay up to £2,500 for irrecoverable loss of unused travel and 
accommodation expenses paid in advance or for which there is a 
contractual liability, consequent upon the cancellation or 
curtailment of the pre-arranged Period of Travel; or if the Period of 
Travel is not cancelled.
 
 To pay up to £500 in all in respect of reasonable additional 
travel and accommodation expenses incurred by the Insured Person in 
fulfilling his pre-booked travel and accommodation commitments 
(following an occurrence covered under Sub-sections (i) to (iv) or in 
using equivalent alternative local accommodation (following an 
occurrence covered under Sub-section (v);
 
 Consequent upon any of the following occurrences:
 
 (i) the Insured Person sustaining bodily injury or becoming ill.
 
 (ii) the death, injury or illness of the Insured Person's relative, 
fiance(e) or business colleague or of any person with whom the 
Insured Person had arranged to travel or reside, or of the relative, 
fiance(e) or business colleague of such person.
 
 (iii) the Insured Person or any person with whom he had arranged to 
travel or reside being:
 
 (a) quarantined or called for witness or jury service.
 
 (b) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for 
payment under the United Kingdom's Redundancy Payments Acts.
 
 (c) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, the 
defence or civil administration, the police force, or the fire, 
rescue, public utility or medical services.
 
 (d) required to be present at his home or place of business in the 
United Kingdom following burglary or major damage.
 
 (iv) The cancellation or delayed departure for 24 hours or more of an 
aircraft, sea vessel or other publicly licensed form of passenger 
transport in which the Insured Person had previously booked to 
travel, resulting from any of the following contingencies: strike, 
industrial action, hijack, criminal act, bomb scare, 
riot, civil commotion, fire, flood, earthquake, landslide, avalanche, 
adverse weather conditions, accident or mechanical breakdown provided 
always that such contingency had not occurred, commenced or been 
announced before the booking was made in respect of the flight, 
voyage or journey thus affected.
 
 (v) major damage rendering uninhabitable the accommodation in which 
the Insured Person had previously booked to reside during the Period 
of Travel, excluding any waterborne vessel or craft.
 
(b) Missed Departure and Transport Diversion
 
 To pay up to £500 in all in respect of reasonable additional 
travel accommodation expenses incurred by the Insured Person in 
fulfilling his pre-booked travel and accommodation commitments:
 
 (i) if at the commencement of the Period of Travel he misses his 
pre-booked international travel connection from the United Kingdom 
through disruption of his journey to the United Kingdom departure 
point occurring as the direct result of:
 
 (a) a fellow passenger or crew member of the conveyance in which he 
is travelling sustaining bodily injury or becoming ill after such 
journey is commenced, or
 
 (b) any of the contingencies specified in Subsection 2(a)(iv), 
provided always that such contingency had not occurred, commenced or 
been announced before the international travel booking was made if 
the United Kingdom journey is by scheduled public transport services, 
or before the United Kingdom journey commenced if such journey is by 
non-scheduled transport.
 
 (ii) if at any time during the Period of Travel an aircraft, sea 
vessel or other publicly licensed passenger conveyance in which he is 
travelling has to be diverted from its pre-arranged destination as 
the result of:
 
 (a) a fellow passenger or crew member sustaining bodily injury or 
becoming ill, or
 
 (b) any of the contingencies specified in Subsection 2(a)(iv), 
provided always that such contingency had not occurred, commenced or 
been announced before the booking was made in respect of the flight, 
voyage or journey thus affected.
 
(c) Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit
 
 To pay as follows if the Insured Person is delayed because of the 
late departure of an aircraft, sea vessel or other publicly licensed 
form of passenger transport in which he had previously booked to 
travel occurring as the result of any of the contingencies specified 
in subsection 2(a)(iv):
 
 (i) Outward journey at commencement of the Period of Travel £10 
for the first completed 12 hour period that departure is delayed and 
£5 for each subsequent 12 hour period, up to a maximum of 
£50 in all, and/or
 
 (ii) All subsequent journeys during the Period of Travel Payment as 
in paragraph (i) up to a maximum of £50 in all, provided always 
that such contingency had not occurred, commenced or been announced 
before the booking was made in respect of the flight, voyage or 
journey thus affected.
 
 
Note: Cover in respect of travel and accommodation rearrangement is 
also provided under the Section 1 Sum Insured - see subsection 1(f).
 
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
To pay according to the following schedule of benefits if at any time 
during the Period of Travel the Insured Person sustains bodily injury 
caused by an accident which solely and independently of any other 
cause results in his death or disablement as specified within twelve 
calendar months from the date of such accident:
 
 
1. Death £25,000 
 
2. Loss of one limb or one eye £25,000 
 
3. Loss of two limbs or both eyes or one limb and one eye £25,000 
 
4. Permanent Total Disablement £25,000 
 
 
For children under 16 years of age the death benefit is limited to 
£2,500.
 
 
The Underwriters shall only be liable:
 
(i) under item 1 of the Schedule of Benefits if death occurs within twenty-four 
calendar months of the date of the accident.
 
(ii) under items 2 and 3 of the Schedule of Benefits if the loss of 
limb(s) and/or eye(s) occurs within twenty-four 
calendar months of the date of the accident.
 
(iii) under item 4 of the Schedule of Benefits if the period of 
Total Disablement giving rise to the claim for this item commences within 
twenty-four calendar months of the date of the accident and lasts for twelve 
consecutive calendar months or more.
 
 
Disappearance Clause If after a reasonable period of time has elapsed 
and all available evidence examined there is reason to presume the 
death of the Insured Person as the result of an occurrence covered by 
this Section of the Insurance, the disappearance of the Insured 
Person shall be deemed a claim hereunder. If at any time after 
payment of such claim the Insured Person shall be found to be living, 
all sums so paid shall be refunded to the Underwriters.
 
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
To indemnify the Insured Person for loss of or damage to baggage and 
personal effects which are his property or responsibility occurring 
during the Period of Travel, up to £1,500 in all.
 
Claims 
settlements for articles lost or destroyed will be based on the cost 
price of comparable new articles, less an appropriate allowance for 
age and condition. The Underwriters' liability for any single item is 
limited to £250, a pair or set of articles being deemed a single 
item.
 
 
Delayed Baggage
 
To pay up to £100 in all in respect of the cost of immediate 
necessities purchased or hired by the Insured Person if on arrival at 
his outward destination he is deprived of his travel baggage for more 
than 12 hours because of temporary loss or misdirection by the 
Carriers, provided always that any amounts thus paid, other than hire 
charges, shall be deducted from the total of any claim becoming 
payable under this Section if the said baggage proves to be 
permanently lost.
 
 
General Average and Salvage
 
To indemnify the Insured Person up to £500 in all in respect of 
any General Average and Salvage Charges levied by Carriers under 
Maritime Law and/or Contract of Carriage and paid by the Insured 
Person to secure the release of his accompanied baggage if at any 
time whilst he is engaged on a journey by sea during the Period of 
Travel a situation of peril arises and the Carriers incur expenses 
and liability in the interest of the common safety of their 
passengers and cargo as a whole.
 
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
To indemnify the Insured Person up to £250 in all in respect of:
 
(a) Money and Travel Documents
 
 Loss of money, travellers' cheques, passports, driving licences, 
green card, petrol coupons and travel tickets during the Period of 
Travel, including expenses directly consequent upon such loss.
 
(b) Fraudulent Use of Lost Credit Card
 
 Loss resulting from the fraudulent use of any credit card, charge 
card or bankers' card held by the Insured Person, following loss of 
such card during the Period of Travel.
 
Cover in respect of the money 
and travel documents specified in paragraph (a) shall commence at the 
time of their collection or receipt by the Insured Person, or 72 
hours prior to the planned commencement of the Period of Travel, 
whichever is the later. Cover in respect of money and travellers' 
cheques remaining after termination of the Period of Travel shall 
continue whilst in the custody of the Insured Person for up to 72 
hours following such termination.
 
 
Business Documents and Records
 
To indemnify the Insured Person up to £100 in all in respect of 
the cost of replacing or restoring business documents and records the 
property of the Assured or the Insured Person, following loss or 
damage during the Period of Travel.
 
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
(a) Legal Expenses
 
 To pay up to £25,000 in all in respect of legal expenses 
incurred by or on behalf of the Insured Person in the pursuit of 
claims for damages against third parties who have caused bodily 
injury to or illness or death of the Insured Person through incidents 
occurring during the Period of Travel.
 
(b) Personal Liability
 
 To indemnify the Insured Person in respect of his legal liability for 
bodily injury to third parties and/or for damage to their property 
arising from an accident occurring during the Period of Travel up to 
but not exceeding £2,000,000 any one accident or series of 
accidents and in all inclusive of associated legal expenses,
 
 Excluding the following:
 
 (i) Liability for bodily injury to the Insured Person's employees or 
to any member of his family or household.
 
 (ii) Liability for damage to property owned by, or in the care, 
custody or control of the Insured Person or any member of his family 
or household, except for damage to the structure or contents of any 
building or permanently or seasonally sited cabin, caravan or tent 
temporarily hired or let to the Insured Person for the sole purpose 
of his personal occupancy during the Period of Travel.
 
 (iii) Liability arising out of the ownership, possession, custody or 
use of:
 
 (a) any aircraft
 
 (b) any mechanically propelled or horse drawn vehicle, other than 
golf buggies
 
 (c) any caravan or vehicular trailer
 
 (d) any waterborne craft, other than sailboards, surfboards, canoes, 
rowing dinghies, foot or hand-propelled paddle boats and inflatable 
sailing dinghies
 
 (e) any firearm
 
 (f) any animal, other than horses hired for hacking only
 
 (g) any land or building or permanently or seasonally sited property 
of any kind.
 
 (iv) Employer's liability.
 
 (v) Contractual liability.
 
 (vi) Liability arising out of or incidental to the practice of a 
profession or occupation or to the supply of goods or services.
 
 (vii) Liability that is covered under any other insurance, except for 
any excess beyond the amount which would have been covered under such 
other insurance had this Insurance not been in force.
 
 
General Provisions and Conditions
 
1. It is a condition precedent to the attachment of cover in respect 
of each Period of Travel hereunder that such Period of Travel shall 
not have been booked or commenced against medical advice, after receipt of 
a terminal prognosis, or for purpose of obtaining medical treatment. 
Pregnancy and its complications during the final 2 months prior to the 
estimated time of delivery are excluded.
 
2. Cover in respect of each Period of Travel shall commence at the 
time that the Insured Person leaves his home or place of business, 
whichever occurs the later for the purpose of proceeding beyond the 
confines of the United Kingdom, and to terminate at the time that he 
returns to his home or place of business, whichever occurs the 
earlier, from door to door. The trip cancellation cover provided 
under Subsection 2(a) shall commence at the time that the insured 
travel and accommodation bookings are made or at the commencement 
date of the specified Period of Insurance, whichever is the later. 
The United Kingdom shall mean England, Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland.
 
3. Except where the Underwriters' specific prior agreement has been 
obtained no Period of Travel shall be deemed to exceed 31 days in 
duration. If a Period of Travel is not completed within this time 
limit due to circumstances beyond the Insured Person's control, cover 
hereunder will continue without additional premium for up to a 
maximum of 14 days.
 
4. It is understood and agreed that this Policy is extended to 
include Winter Sports subject to the following Clause: Winter sports 
is included for a period of 17 days in any one insurance year but 
competition in major events on snow or ice, freestyle skiing, 
repetitive travel in ski-run helicopters, ski-jumping, ice hockey and 
the use of bob-sleighs and skeletons is excluded. The limit in 
respect of any one pair of skis is £250 except where they are 
over five years old at the time of the insured loss or damage, when 
the Underwriters liability shall not exceed £50 per pair. The 
Underwriters shall not be liable for loss of or damage to hired 
clothing and hired equipment of any kind. The list of insured travel 
documents is extended to include ski-lift passes.
 
5. Provided that the Underwriters' specific prior agreement has been 
obtained to renewal or extension of this Insurance at its expiry 
date, cover hereunder in respect of any Period of Travel in progress 
at such expiry date shall continue until its termination in 
accordance with Conditions 2 and 3 above.
 
6. Subject always to the terms, provisions, conditions and 
exclusions hereof, cover under this Policy shall attach in respect of all 
Periods of Travel commencing during the specified Period of 
Insurance.
 
7. Any travel and accommodation bookings made during the specified 
Period of Insurance but relating to a Period of Travel planned to 
commence after its expiry date shall be included for cover under the 
trip cancellation provisions of Subsection 2(a) of this Policy during 
the period up to but not beyond the said expiry date. (The 
continuation of cover thereafter will be subject to the Underwriters' 
prior agreement to renewal or extension of this Policy.)
 
8. Each Insured Person and each Period of Travel shall be deemed a 
separate Insurance.
 
9. For female Insured Persons the words he, him and his appearing in 
this Policy shall be deemed to be replaced by she and her.
 
10. All italic wording in this Policy is intended solely for the 
procedural guidance of the Assured/Insured Person(s). Such wording 
does not form part of the contract of insurance and does not confer 
any contractual obligation on Underwriters.
 
11. Except for such times during which War Exclusion (B) shall be 
operative, all cover for bodily injury specified in Sections 1, 2 and 
3 of this Insurance shall include injury attributable to hijack, 
kidnap or other terrorist or criminal act of third parties, and 
exposure resulting from a mishap to any conveyance in which the 
Insured Person is travelling.
 
12. All cover for illness specified in Sections 1 and 2 of this 
Insurance shall include medical complications of pregnancy occurring 
within the period up to but not beyond two months of the estimated 
date of delivery.
 
13. Notice shall be given to the Underwriters as soon as practicable 
of any accident, illness, loss, damage or mishap which causes or may 
cause a claim to be made under this Insurance.
 
14. All claims correspondence and supporting documentation should be 
sent to James Hampden Insurance Brokers Limited who have signed this 
Policy, quoting the Policy Number and the Broker's Reference.
 
15. Claims under this Insurance shall be payable to the Assured named 
herein or, if no Assured is named, to the Insured Person or to his 
legal personal representatives.
 
16. This Insurance shall be governed by English Law.
 
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
The Limit -- £3 million shall mean that Under-writers shall be 
liable to a limit of £3 million under Subsections (a) to (c) and 
(e) to (g). The printed individual limit applicable to Sub-section 
(d) shall remain unchanged. The Underwriters shall only be liable in 
respect of those expenses incurred within the period up to but not 
beyond the date on which the Insured Person returns to the United 
Kingdom at the termination of the Period of Travel, or the twelve 
months anniversary date following the date on which the insured 
bodily injury, illness or contingency first occurred or commenced 
during the Period of Travel, whichever shall occur the sooner.
 
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption
 
The Underwriters shall only be liable:
 
1. under the cancellation and curtailment provisions of Subsection 
2(a) to the extent of the contractual liability.
 
2. For claims arising from delayed departure under Subsection 
2(a)(iv) and 2(c) if the Insured Person has obtained written 
confirmation from the Carriers or their Agents stating the actual 
date and time of departure and the reason for the delay. For the 
purposes of claims payment under these Subsections the period of 
delay shall be taken as commencing at the departure time of the 
conveyance as specified in the booking confirmation supplied to the 
Insured Person.
 
3. Under Subsection 2(b)(i) if in the selection of the route, means 
of travel and time of departure the Insured Person has done all 
things reasonable and practicable to minimise the possibility of late 
arrival at the United Kingdom departure point.
 
4. For claims under Subsection 2(b)(i) attributable to mechanical 
breakdown or non-scheduled transport if the Insured Person has 
obtained a garage or motoring organisation report confirming the 
date, cause and time of such breakdown.
 
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
1. In no case shall the Underwriters' liability in respect of the 
Insured Person exceed in all the largest Sum Insured applicable to 
him under any one item in the schedule of benefits.
 
2. No claim shall be payable under more than one item in the schedule 
of benefits in respect of the consequences of one accident.
 
3. In the event that an accident covered hereunder should result in 
the death of the Insured Person within twelve months of the date of 
the accident and prior to the definite settlement of the compensation 
for disablement, there shall be paid instead of the latter the 
compensation payable in the case of death.
 
4. In the event of a claim the Underwriters' appointed medical 
adviser(s) shall be allowed to examine the Insured Person as often as 
may be deemed necessary.
 
5. For the purposes of this Insurance:
 
 Loss of a limb shall mean loss by physical separation of a hand at or 
above the wrist or of a foot at or above the ankle, and shall include 
total and irrecoverable loss of use of hand, arm or leg.
 
 Loss of an eye shall mean total and irrecoverable loss of sight of 
the eye.
 
 Permanent Total Disablement shall mean disablement of the Insured 
Person which prevents him from engaging in any part of his usual 
occupation for a period of twelve consecutive calendar months and 
which at the end of that time is without prospect of improvement.
 
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects and
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
The Insured Person shall at all times exercise reasonable care in the 
supervision of the Insured Property.
 
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
The Underwriters shall only be liable in respect of the fraudulent 
use of credit card, charge card or bankers' card if the Assured 
and/or the Insured Person has (have) complied with the terms and 
conditions under which the card was issued.
 
 
Subsection 6(a): Legal Expenses
 
The Underwriters shall only be liable for legal expenses incurred 
with their consent which shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
Nevertheless Underwriters reserve the right to withdraw at any stage, 
and thereafter they shall not be liable for any further expenses.
 
 
Subsection 6(b): Personal Liability
 
The Underwriters shall only be liable:
 
1. if their written consent has been given before any liability has 
been admitted.
 
2. for legal expenses incurred with their consent.
 
 
Other Exclusions
 
All Sections
 
The Underwriters shall not be liable:
 
1. if the Insured Person has reached his 70th birthday at the 
commencement date of the specified Period of Insurance.
 
2. for death, disablement, expense, loss, damage or indemnity 
resulting from or attributable to:
 
 (i) mountaineering or rock climbing normally requiring the use of 
ropes or guides, riding or driving in any kind of race, any form of 
operational duties as a member of the armed forces (except for the 
cover specifically provided under Subsection 2(a)(iii) paragraph (c), 
international overland journeys in Asia, Africa or South America 
(other than by rail), professional entertaining, or aviation except 
when travelling by air as a passenger.
 
 (ii) the Insured Person's suicide or attempted suicide or 
intentional self-injury or deliberate exposure to exceptional danger 
(except in an attempt to save human life).
 
 (iii) the Insured Person's own criminal act.
 
3. for loss or expense arising out of or attributable to 
mental, nervous, depressive or stress related disorders.
 
 
Data Protection Act 1998
 
It is understood by the Insured that any information provided to the 
Underwriters regarding the Insured will be processed by the 
Underwriters in compliance with the provisions of the Data 
Protection Act 1998 for the purpose of providing insurance and 
handling claims, if any, which may necessitate providing such 
information to third parties.
 
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses and
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption
 
The Underwriters shall not be liable:
 
1. for any claim arising out of pregnancy or any condition connected 
with pregnancy within two months of the estimated date of delivery.
 
2. under Subsections 1(a) and 2(a) for claims attributable to any 
medical condition or set of circumstances known to the Insured Person 
at the time that the Period of Travel was booked, or at the 
commencement date of the specified Period of Insurance if this shall 
be the later, where such condition or circumstances could reasonably 
have been expected to give rise to cancellation or curtailment of the 
Period of Travel.
 
3. for the first £35 of the total losses arising out of one 
occurrence.
 
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption
 
The Underwriters shall not be liable under Subsections 2(a)(iv), 2(b) 
and 2(c) for claims arising out of any contingency that had occurred, 
commenced or been announced before the commencement date of the 
specified Period of Insurance.
 
 
Sections 1 and 2: Special Provision
 
If this Policy is a renewal or extension of a previous James Hampden 
Annual Travel Insurance Policy under which the Insured Person was 
included for the cover specified in these Sections then:
 
(i) the words "or at the commencement date of the specified Period of 
Insurance if this shall be the later" shall be deemed deleted from 
Exclusion 2 applicable jointly to Sections 1 and 2 and from Exclusion 
2 applicable solely to Section 1 and
 
(ii) the Exclusion applicable solely to Section 2 shall be deemed 
deleted in its entirety, provided always that the travel and 
accommodation bookings relating to the relevant Period of Travel were 
made during the Period of Insurance of such previous Policy.
 
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
The Underwriters shall not be liable for death or disablement 
directly or indirectly resulting from or attributable to disease or 
natural causes or medical or surgical treatment (unless rendered 
necessary by accidental bodily injury covered hereunder).
 
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
The Underwriters shall not be liable for:
 
1. loss of or damage to hired clothing and hired equipment of any kind.
 
2. damage due to wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
 
3. loss of or damage to household effects.
 
4. electrical or mechanical breakdown or derangement.
 
5. loss of or damage to 'valuables' contained in baggage whilst such 
baggage is in the custody of Carriers and outside the control of 
the Insured person. For the purposes of this exclusion 'valuables' 
shall mean : jewellery, furs, gold and silver articles, watches, 
binoculars, telescopes, photographic equipment, audio 
equipment and video equipment.
 
2. loss of cash, currency, bank notes, travellers' cheques, 
passports, driving licences, green card, petrol coupons, tickets, ski passes, 
securities and documents.
 
3. confiscation or detention by Customs or other Authority.
 
4. General Average and Salvage Charges which are covered, or would 
but for the existence of this Insurance be covered, by any other 
Insurer or Indemnifying Organisation, except in respect of any 
excess beyond the amount payable by such other Insurer or 
Organisation.
 
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
The Underwriters shall not be liable for:
 
1. any loss not reported to the Police within 48 hours of discovery
 
2. any loss of credit card, charge card or bankers' card not reported 
to the Issuing Company or Bank in accordance with the conditions 
under which the card was issued
 
3. money lost in exchange, or by error or omission in transactions or 
purchases
 
4. confiscation or detention by Customs or other Authority.
 
 
Sections 4 and 5: Joint Excess
 
Except in respect of the Delayed Baggage and General Average and 
Salvage provisions of Section 4 the Underwriters shall not be liable 
for the first £35 of the total of losses arising out of one 
occurrence.
 
Radioactive Contamination and Sonic Bangs Exclusion Clause applying 
to Subsections 1(f), 2(a)(iii) paragraph (d), 2(a)(iv), 2(a)(v), 
2(b), 2(c) and to Sections 3, 4, 5 and 6.
 
The Underwriters shall not 
be liable for death, disablement, expense, loss, damage or indemnity 
directly or indirectly resulting from or attributable to radioactive 
contamination or to pressure waves caused by aircraft or other aerial 
device travelling at sonic or super-sonic speeds.
 
 
War and Terrorism Exclusions
 
The Underwriters shall not be liable in respect of any claim directly 
or indirectly consequent or contributed to by war, hostilities or warlike 
operations (whether war be declared or not), invasion, act of an enemy 
foreign to the nationality of the insured person or the country in, or over, 
which the act occurs, civil war, riot, rebellion, insurrection, revolution, 
overthrow of the legally constituted government, civil commotion assuming 
the proportions of, or amounting to, an uprising, military or usurped power, 
explosions of war weapons, release of weapons of mass destruction that do 
not involve an explosive sequence, murder or Assault subsequently proved 
beyond reasonable doubt to have been the act of agents of a state foreign 
to the nationality of the insured person whether war be declared with that 
state or not and terrorist activity.
 
(i) For the purpose of this exclusion terrorist activity means an 
act, or acts, of any person, or groups of persons, committed for political, 
religious, ideological or similar purposes with the intention to influence 
any government and/or to put the public, or any section of the public, in 
fear. Terrorist activity can include, but not be limited to, the use of force 
or violence and/or the threat thereof. Furthermore, the perpetrators of 
terrorist activity can either be acting alone, or on behalf of, or in 
connection with any organisation(s) or government(s).
 
(ii) Utilisation of Nuclear weapons of mass destruction means the 
use of any explosive nuclear weapon or device or the emission, discharge, 
dispersal, release or escape of fissile material emitting a level of 
radioactivity capable of causing incapacitating disablement or death among 
people or animals.
 
(iii) Utilisation of Chemical weapons of mass destruction means the 
emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any solid liquid or 
gaseous chemical compound which, when suitably distributed, is capable of 
causing incapacitating disablement or death among people or animals.
 
(iv) Utilisation of Biological weapons of mass destruction means 
the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any pathogenic 
(disease producing) micro-organism(s) and/or biologically produced toxin(s) 
(including genetically modified organisms and chemically synthesised toxins) 
which are capable of causing incapacitating disablement or death among people 
or animals.
 
Also excluded hereon is any loss or expense of whatsoever nature 
directly or indirectly caused by, resulting from or in connection with any 
action taken in controlling, preventing, or suppressing any, or all, of the 
above.
 
In the event any portion of this exclusion is found to be invalid or 
unenforceable, the remainder shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
We will endeavour to provide a standard of 
service that will leave you with no cause for complaint.
 
However, if 
you feel that we have not met a satisfactory standard of service, you 
can take the following action:
 
 
1. In the first instance you can write 
to us at the address given on the back of this document.
 
 
2. If the 
matter remains unsolved you may ask the Complaints Department at 
Lloyd's to review your case without prejudice to your rights in law, 
The address is:
 
 
 Complaints Department, Lloyd's
 
 One Lime Street, London EC3R 7HA
 
 
3. If, after following the above procedure, your 
complaint has not been resolved to your satisfaction, you have the 
right to refer the matter to the Insurance Ombudsman, at the 
following address:
 
 
 Insurance Ombudsman Bureau
 
 City Gate One, 135 Park Street,
 
 London SE1 9EA
 
 
In all communications please state the 
certificate number appearing in the schedule.
 
 
Your Insurance cover is 
governed by English law and your insurer is identified in the 
Certificate. If you would like more information you should ask your 
agent, particularly if you feel the insurance may not meet your 
needs._
 
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
 
Under the Association of British 
Insurers general Business Code of Practice, the person selling the 
insurance must draw your attention to important features of your 
Travel Insurance including:
 
 
 Certificate: you should read the 
certificate carefully as it provides full details of what is and is 
not covered and the conditions of the cover.
 
 
 Conditions: Exclusions 
and Warranties: conditions and exclusions will apply to individual 
sections while general exclusions, conditions and warranties will 
apply to the whole of your policy.
 
 
 Health: your Travel Insurance 
Cover contains restrictions regarding pre-existing medical problems 
concerning the health of the people travelling and of other people 
upon whose health the trip may depend. You are advised to read your 
Certificate carefully. If you have a pre-existing medical condition, 
you must disclose this information. To do this ring James Hampden 
01530 416369 who will advise of any special terms that will apply.
 
 
 Dangerous Sports or Pastimes: if you are going to take part in 
dangerous sports or pastimes where there is a risk of injury, check 
that this Travel Insurance covers you.
 
 
 Property Claims: these 
claims are paid on a 'new for old' basis, provided the articles are 
less than 2 years old and supplied with evidence of original 
purchase. For articles over 2 years old claims will be paid on the 
value of the goods at the time of loss.
 
 
 Cover Limits: most sections 
have limits on the amount the insurer will pay under that section. 
Some sections also include other specific limits, for example: for 
any one item or for valuables in total. You are advised to check the 
Certificate.
 
 
 Excess: under most Sections of this Insurance claims 
will be subject to an excess. This means that you will be responsible 
for paying the first part of the claim. The amount you have to pay is 
the excess.
 
 
 Reasonable Care: you need to take all reasonable care 
to protect yourself and your property, as you would as if you were 
not insured.
 
 
 Complaints: your Travel Insurance has a complaints 
procedure which tells you what steps to take if you wish to make a 
complaint.
 
 
 'Cooling Off' Period: If you have a justifiable reason 
for being dissatisfied with the cover provided by this insurance, you 
may return it to James Hampden Insurance Brokers Limited within 14 
days from the date of issue, who will refund your premium in full 
provided no claims have been made and you return the Certificate 
prior to your departure date.
 
 
 
