
T&C Business
	
	
What is PI?
Media and Marketing
Business and Management
Information Technology
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Members
 
 
 Info 
 
 
 Help 
 
 
 Press
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Business Travel Insurance Terms and Conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This 
 is a legal document and may not be altered in any way.
 
 Underwritten 
 by certain syndicates at Lloyd's and arranged by RapidInsure.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following 
 are the FULL DETAILS, TERMS, CONDITIONS, DEFINITIONS AND EXCLUSIONS 
 of a travel Insurance scheme arranged by Rapidinsure.co.uk.
 
 This is to certify that in accordance with the authorisation granted under 
 Contract Number PA/999 to the Issuing Agent by certain syndicates at Lloyd's 
 (hereafter referred to as the Underwriters), whose definitive numbers 
 and the proportions underwritten by them, which will be supplied on application, 
 can be ascertained by reference to the said Contract which bears the Seal 
 of Lloyd's Policy Signing Office, and in consideration of the payment 
 of the premium specified herein, the said Underwriters are hereby bound, 
 severally and not jointly, their Executors and Administrators, to insure 
 the person(s) named in the Schedule, for the Benefits detailed herein.
 
 
 
OPERATIVE 
 TIME
 
 To cover a single trip or in the case of an annual multi trip policy, 
 trips not exceeding 60 days each trip, having a destination outside the 
 United Kingdom, during the period shown in Validating Schedule.
 
 Cover operates from the time the Insured Person leaves home or place of 
 employment (whichever is the later) during the whole time away and until 
 return to place of employment or home (whichever is the earlier). 
 
 Each trip is deemed to be a separate insurance, each being subject to 
 the terms, Definitions, Exclusions and Conditions contained herein. 
 
 
SCHEDULE 
 OF BENEFITS
 
 THIS EVIDENCE INSURES ONLY THOSE ITEMS WHICH HAVE AN AMOUNT ENTERED BY 
 THEM ON THE VALIDATING SCHEDULE. ITEMS NOT INSURED HAVE THE WORDS 'NOT 
 COVERED' BY THEM. 
 SECTION
 
 1. MEDICAL 
 AND ADDITIONAL EXPENSES 
 
 2. 
 CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT 
 
 3. EMPLOYEE REPLACEMENT 
 
 4. JOURNEY CONTINUATION
 
 5. TRAVEL DELAY 
 
 6. PERSONAL LIABILITY 
 
 7. LEGAL EXPENSES 
 
 8. PERSONAL ACCIDENT 
 
 9. HOSPITAL BENEFIT 
 
 10. ACCOMPANIED PERSONAL BAGGAGE, CLOTHING OR EFFECTS, 
 BUSINESS EQUIPMENT SAMPLES AND MONEY (this section is optional 
 and is only operative if shown on the validating schedule)
 
 11. LOSS OF PASSPORT 
 
 12. HI-JACK, KIDNAP AND DETENTION 
 
 13. CAR HIRE EXCESS WAIVER 
 
THIS EVIDENCE 
 IS VALID ONLY WHEN ISSUED WITH A NUMBERED AND DATED VALIDATING SCHEDULE 
 WHICH FORMS PART OF THIS INSURANCE. 
 
 
NOTICE 
 TO THE INSURED PERSON OR ASSURED IF APPLICABLE 
 
 The cover referred to in this Evidence is subject to English Law. 
 
Any enquiry 
 or complaint should be addressed in the first instance to 
 
 
RapidInsure.co.uk
 Phoenix Park
 Blakewater Road
 Blackburn, Lancs.
 BB1 5SJ
 
 Telephone: 01254 266260
 
 
If you are 
 not satisfied with the way a complaint has been dealt with you may ask 
 the Complaints Department to review your case without prejudice to your 
 rights in law. The address is: 
 
 
Complaints 
 Department 
 Lloyd's 
 One Lime Street
 London 
 EC3M 7HA 
 
 
 
CLAIMS 
 PROCEDURE
 
 Notice must be given under all Sections, other than Section 7, Legal Expenses, 
 to the adjusters: 
 
 
 Cassidy 
 Davis Insurance Services Ltd
 21 Perrymount Road
 Haywards Heath
 West Sussex
 RH16 3TP
 
 Tel: 
 (+44) (0)1444 450550
 
 
 as soon 
 as possible, or in the event of a claim under Section 2, Cancellation 
 and Curtailment, immediate notice must be given of any occurrence which 
 may give rise to a claim. 
 
In the event 
 of a claim under Section 7, Legal Expenses, notice must be given to 
 
 
Eastgate 
 Assistance
 Eastgate House
 The Business Park
 Stephenson Road
 Colchester
 Essex
 CO4 4QR
 
Telephone: 
 08705 234567
 
 
 as soon 
 as possible. Please quote reference "RapidInsure".
 
 If possible, 
 the original or a copy of your Validating Schedule should be sent when 
 notifying a claim as this will ensure prompt attention. 
 
 
WHAT TO 
 DO IN THE CASE OF A SERIOUS MEDICAL EMERGENCY 
 
 Telephone CEGA Emergency 24 Hour Service on 
 
 
CHICHESTER, 
 UK +44 (0)1243 776255
 
 
 immediately 
 but in any event within 48 hours of any serious accident or illness abroad 
 requiring in-patient hospitalisation, extended treatment or alteration 
 to travel arrangements. 
 
 HAVE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION AVAILABLE:-
 
 
 1. The 
 number of this Evidence. 
 2. The name and address of the Issuing Agent/Broker.
 3. The telephone number from which you are calling. 
 4. The name and telephone number of the Doctor and Hospital attending 
 the ill/injured Insured Person.
 
 
 FAILURE 
 TO CONSULT WITH CEGA AND TO ACT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR INSTRUCTIONS 
 COULD PREJUDICE YOUR CLAIM.
 
 If you want 
 to know what to do in the event of Hi-Jack, Kidnap and Detention, or should 
 you be travelling to a hazardous area and require advice, please call.
 
 
DEFINITIONS
 
"BODILY 
 INJURY" means identifiable physical injury which:- 
 
 
a) is sustained 
 by an Insured Person, and 
 
 b) is caused by an Accident during the Operative Time, and 
 
 c) solely and independently of any other cause, except illness 
 
 
directly 
 resulting from or medical or surgical treatment rendered necessary by 
 such injury, occasions the death or disablement of an Insured Person within 
 twelve months from the date of the Accident.
 
"ACCIDENT" 
 means a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific event which occurs at an 
 identifiable time and place during the Operative Time, but also includes 
 exposure resulting from a mishap to a conveyance in which an Insured Person 
 is travelling.
 
 "LOSS 
 OF LIMB" means permanent loss by physical separation of a hand at 
 or above the wrist or of a foot at or above the ankle, and includes permanent 
 total and irrecoverable loss of use of a hand, arm or leg. 
 
"PERMANENT 
 TOTAL DISABLEMENT" means disablement which entirely prevents an Insured 
 Person from attending to the duties of his usual business or occupation 
 and which lasts twelve months and at the expiry of that period is beyond 
 hope of improvement.
 
 "DEPENDANT 
 CHILDREN" Means all children aged 18 or under who are dependant on you 
	or your Partner and are travelling with an adult known to you or as an unaccompanied 
	minor on a scheduled air service. 
 
"HI-JACK" 
 means the unlawful seizure or wrongful exercise of control of an aircraft 
 or conveyance or the crew thereof, in which the Insured Person is travelling 
 as a passenger. 
 
"VALUABLES" 
 means watches, furs, jewellery and photographic, video, audio and computer 
 equipment.
 
 "SUM 
 INSURED" shall be the limit of Underwriters liability as shown on 
 the Validating Schedule. 
 
"AIRCRAFT 
 ACCUMULATION LIMIT" means that in the event of an Accident to an aircraft 
 involving more than one Insured Person, where the claim exceeds the Accumulation 
 Limit specified in the Validating Schedule, the compensation payable in 
 respect of each Insured Person under Section 8, Personal Accident, shall 
 be proportionately reduced until the total does not exceed that limit. 
 
 
 
GENERAL 
 EXCLUSIONS 
 
 The Underwriters shall not be liable under any Section of this Insurance 
 in respect of:- 
 
1. Any trip 
 which is booked or commenced by an Insured Person:- 
 
 
a) contrary 
 to medical advice, or
 
 b) to obtain medical treatment, or 
 
 c) after a terminal prognosis has been made. 
 
 
2. Any part 
 of any trip which is booked or commenced by an Insured Person in the knowledge 
 that such trip will be longer than 60 days. 
 
3. Any claims 
 from an Insured person who was over 70 years of age at the inception date 
 of this certificate. 
 
4. Any trip 
 undertaken by Dependant Children under the age of 18 unless accompanied 
 by an adult insured under this Insurance. 
 
5. Any claims 
 or expenses arising directly or indirectly from any medical condition 
 of an Insured Person for which medical advise or treatment has been given 
 by a Medical Practitioner or Hospital during the 12 months prior to inception 
 of cover under this Insurance. 
 
6. Any claims 
 directly or indirectly caused or contributed to by an Insured Person's 
 intentional self injury, suicide or attempted suicide, provoked assault, 
 fighting (except in bona fide self defence) or from an Insured Person's 
 own criminal act or whilst engaged or taking part in civil commotions 
 or riots of any kind. 
 
7. The first 
 £30.00 each claim, each Insured Person. 
 
8. Any claims 
 due to any condition caused by, prolonged by, or aggravated by any psyciatric, 
 mental or nervous disorder of an Insured Person, including anxiety and/or 
 depression. 
 
9. Any loss 
 or destruction of or damage to any property whatsoever or any loss or 
 expense whatsoever resulting or arising therefrom or any consequential 
 loss or any legal liability of whatsoever nature, directly or indirectly 
 caused by or contributed to by or arising from 
 
 
(i) ionising 
 radiations or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or 
 from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel
 
 (ii) the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties 
 of any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear component thereof. 
 
 
10. In respect 
 of a single trip policy, winter sporting activities are excluded unless 
 the appropriate premium has been paid. In respect of an Annual Multi-Trip 
 policy, winter sporting activities are included, but limited to 17 days 
 in all during the period of insurance.
 
IN ADDITION 
 TO THESE GENERAL EXCLUSIONS THERE ARE EXCLUSIONS WHICH APPLY TO EACH SECTION. 
 
 
 
CONDITIONS 
 
 
1. Any fraud, 
 misstatement or concealment in the statements made by or on behalf of 
 an Insured Person prior to or when arranging this Insurance or in the 
 submission of a claim made hereunder shall render this Insurance null 
 and void and all claims shall be forfeited. 
 
2. No endorsement 
 or amendment to this Evidence shall override the exclusions applicable 
 to Section 6, Personal Liability. 
 
 
EXTENSION
 
 If an Insured Person has not returned to the United Kingdom before the 
 expiration of a trip for reasons which are beyond his control, this Insurance 
 will remain in force for a further 21 days or until return, whichever 
 is the earlier, without additional premium, but in the event of an Insured 
 Person being Hi-Jacked, cover shall continue whilst such Insured Person 
 is subject to the control of the person(s) or their associates making 
 the Hi-Jack and during travel direct to his domicile and/or original destination, 
 up to twelve months from the date of his Hi-Jack. 
 
 
SECTION 
 1. MEDICAL AND ADDITIONAL EXPENSES - UP TO £5,000,000 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person for the following expenses 
 should an Insured Person suffer Bodily Injury or illness during the Operative 
 Time:-
 
 
 i. Normal 
 and necessary expenses incurred outside the United Kingdom for medical 
 or surgical treatment including specialists' fees, emergency dental 
 treatment, emergency ophthalmic fees, hospital, nursing home and nursing 
 attendance charges, physiotherapy, massage and manipulative treatment, 
 surgical and medical requisites and ambulance charges.
 
 ii. Reasonable additional accommodation and repatriation expenses incurred 
 by the Insured Person and any one member of his family or travel party 
 or business associate who has to remain or travel with the injured or 
 ill Insured Person. 
 
 iii. Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses of one person to travel 
 from the United Kingdom if his presence with the injured or ill Insured 
 Person is necessary on medical grounds.
 
 iv. Reasonable expenses incurred in transporting the remains or ashes 
 of the Insured Person to his former place of residence in the United 
 Kingdom or country of domicile or reasonable funeral expenses incurred 
 abroad.
 
 v. Expenses incurred with the prior consent and authorisation of the 
 Emergency 24 Hour Service Company appointed by Underwriters, whose full 
 details are given within the Claims Procedure Section of this Evidence, 
 for the provision of an air ambulance or the use of air transport, including 
 qualified attendants, to repatriate the seriously ill or injured Insured 
 Person to the United Kingdom or country of domicile.
 
 
 EXCLUSIONS
 
 The Underwriters shall not be liable to pay for :-
 
 
i. Any 
 claims due to Winter Sports involving ski and ski-bob racing in international 
 or national events, services or inter-services championships, or heats 
 or officially organised practice or training for these events, ski-jumping, 
 ice hockey or the use of skeletons or bob-sleighs.
 
 ii. 
 Any claims due to the Insured Person participating in motor competitions 
 or professional sport.
 
 iii. Any expenses arising from pregnancy, childbirth or any medical 
 complications resulting therefrom if delivery is expected during a trip 
 or within 2 months upon expiration thereof.
 
 iv. The costs of continuing regular medication for any condition for 
 which medical advice or treatment is being followed at the time of booking 
 or commencing a trip. 
 
 v. Any expenses incurred more than 24 months after the date the first 
 expense was incurred, or any continuing expenses incurred after the 
 Insured Person is fit to travel and has refused the option of repatriation 
 to the United Kingdom or country of domicile.
 
 vi. Any claims consequent upon Venereal Disease or any expenses incurred 
 either directly or indirectly in the treatment, diagnosis or counselling 
 of either Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (A.I.D.S.), A.I.D.S. Related 
 Complex (A.R.C.) or Human Immunodeficiency Virus (H.I.V.) howsoever 
 these have been acquired or may be named. 
 
Note: Claims 
 for repatriation on the grounds of the fear of contracting A.I.D.S., 
 A.R.C. or H.I.V. from medical treatment will only be admitted if agreed 
 by medical advisors at CEGA.
 
vii Anything 
 included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
SECTION 
 2. CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT - UP TO £5,000 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person for any irrecoverable 
 payments paid or contracted to be paid for travel, accommodation and unused 
 pre-booked excursions (including reasonable additional travel and accommodation 
 expenses incurred for return to the United Kingdom) should the projected 
 trip be cancelled before commencement or curtailed before completion, 
 directly as a result of:
 
 
i. Death, 
 Bodily Injury, illness or compulsory quarantine of:- 
 
 
a) an 
 Insured Person, or 
 
 b) any member of the travel party, or 
 
 c) any person with whom an Insured Person intends to reside or conduct 
 business with during the trip, or 
 
 d) any close relative (including fiance(e)) or business associate 
 necessitating an Insured Person's presence in the United Kingdom.
 
 
 ii. Marital 
 breakdown (provided that formal legal proceedings have been commenced) 
 of:-
 
 
a) an 
 Insured Person, or 
 
 b) any member of the travel party, or 
 
 c) a close business associate. 
 
 
iii. Summoning 
 to jury service or witness attendance in a court of the United Kingdom 
 or unavoidable requirement to be present in the United Kingdom for service 
 in any military or civil emergency of:- 
 
 
a) an 
 Insured Person, or
 
 b) any member of the travel party.
 
 c) a close business associate.
 
 
 iv. Major 
 damage or burglary at the home or place of business of:- 
 
 
a) an 
 Insured Person, or 
 
 b) any member of the travel party, or 
 
 c) any person with whom an Insured Person intends to reside or conduct 
 business with, during the trip.
 
 
 v. Adverse 
 weather conditions making it impossible for an Insured Person to travel 
 to the point of departure at commencement of the outward trip.
 
 
 CANCELLATION 
 AND CURTAILMENT EXCLUSIONS
 
 The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :- 
 
 
i. Any 
 expenses arising from pregnancy, childbirth or any medical complications 
 resulting therefrom if delivery is expected during a trip or within 
 2 months upon expiration thereof.
 
 ii. Any claims attributable to any condition or set of circumstances 
 known to the Insured Person at the time of effecting this Insurance 
 or booking a trip, where such condition or set of circumstances could 
 reasonably have been expected to give rise to cancellation or curtailment 
 of a trip.
 
 iii. Any claims where medical or other suitable evidence is not provided 
 as proof of the necessity to cancel or curtail a trip
 
 iv. Any claims consequent upon Venereal Disease or any expenses incurred 
 either directly or indirectly in the treatment, diagnosis or counselling 
 of either Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (A.I.D.S.), A.I.D.S. Related 
 Complex (A.R.C.) or Human Immunodeficiency Virus (H.I.V.) howsoever 
 these have been acquired or may be named. 
 
 Note: Claims for repatriation on the grounds of the fear of contracting 
 A.I.D.S., A.R.C. or H.I.V. from medical treatment will only be admitted 
 if agreed by medical advisors at CEGA.
 
 v. Any claims caused or contributed to by the failure of or the fear 
 of the failure of or the inability of any equipment or any computer 
 program to recognise, interpret correctly or process any date as its 
 true calendar date or to continue to function correctly beyond that 
 date. 
 
 vi. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence.
 
 
 
SECTION 
 3 - EMPLOYEE REPLACEMENT - UP TO £3,000 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person for additional expenses 
 necessarily and reasonably incurred in recruiting and sending another 
 employee overseas to replace an Insured Person should he have to be replaced 
 and return home before completion of his work overseas, for any of the 
 following reasons:-
 
 
 i. The 
 death, accidental Bodily Injury, illness or compulsory quarantine of 
 an Insured Person, spouse or business associate(s). 
 
 ii. Hi-jack of an Insured Person. Note: The onus of proof that replacement 
 was necessary, lies with the Assured/Employer. 
 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 
 The Underwriters shall not be liable to pay for :- 
 
 
i. Any 
 claims due to the Insured Person participating in motor competitions 
 or professional sport.
 
 ii. Any claims arising from pregnancy or childbirth or any medical complications 
 resulting therefrom if delivery is expected during a trip or within 
 2 months upon expiration thereof. 
 
 iii. Any claims attributable to any condition or set of circumstances 
 known to the Insured Person at the time of effecting this Insurance 
 or booking a trip, where such condition or set of circumstances could 
 reasonably have been expected to give rise to replacement.
 
 iv. Any claims where medical or other suitable evidence is not provided 
 as proof of the necessity to replace the Insured Person.
 
 v. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence.
 
 
 
SECTION 
 4. JOURNEY CONTINUATION - UP TO £500
 
 The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person for reasonable additional 
 travel and accommodation expenses incurred in meeting a reserved overseas 
 travel connection or reaching reserved accommodation, if at commencement 
 of, or during a trip an Insured Person misses a reserved air, sea, coach 
 or rail journey through any of the following contingencies directly affecting 
 the means of transport in which he is travelling or intending to travel:-
 
 
 i. If 
 travel is by non-scheduled transport, interruption caused by strike, 
 locked out workers, industrial action, riot or civil commotion, bomb 
 scare, criminal or terrorist action, hi-jack, fire, avalanche, landslide, 
 earthquake, flood, or accident to or mechanical breakdown of such non-scheduled 
 transport, an official warning issued by the UK government advising 
 against travel to or through a country that forms a major part of the 
 pre booked itinerary, or travel restrictions by the government of the 
 country in question against free passage of UK passport holders. 
 
 ii. If travel is by scheduled public transport, the contingencies specified 
 in i. above, and adverse weather conditions.
 
 
EXCLUSIONS
 
 The Underwriters shall not be liable to pay for :- 
 
 
i. Any 
 claims arising out of any of the contingencies specified in i. or ii. 
 above, if they had already started or been forecast before the original 
 reservations were made. 
 
 ii. Any claims caused or contributed to by the failure of or the fear 
 of the failure of or the inability of any equipment or any computer 
 program to recognise, interpret correctly or process any date as its 
 true calendar date or to continue to function correctly beyond that 
 date.
 
 iii. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 
 5. TRAVEL DELAY - UP TO £100 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person in accordance with 
 the following scale, should the aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train on 
 which an Insured Person is booked to travel be delayed as a result of 
 strike, locked out workers, industrial action, riot or civil commotion, 
 bomb scare, criminal or terrorist action, hi-jack, fire, avalanche, landslide, 
 earthquake, flood, adverse weather conditions, or accident to or mechanical 
 breakdown of such passenger transport:-
 
 
 i. £30 
 for the first completed 4 hour period an Insured Person is delayed for, 
 and
 
 ii. £15 for each subsequent completed 4 hour period that an Insured 
 Person is delayed for. 
 
 
OR 
 
 In the event of delay to the Insured Person due to the contingencies specified 
 above of at least 24 hours, the Underwriters will pay up to the Sum Insured 
 by Section 2, Cancellation and Curtailment, each Insured Person for any 
 irrecoverable payments paid or contracted to be paid in respect of travel 
 and accommodation in the event of the cancellation of a trip.
 
 EXCLUSIONS
 
 The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :-
 
 
 i. Any 
 claims attributable to any condition or set of circumstances known to 
 the Insured Person at the time of effecting this Insurance or booking 
 a trip, where such condition or set of circumstances could reasonably 
 have been expected to give rise to a claim under this Section.
 
 ii. Any claims arising directly or indirectly out of the failure of 
 the Insured Person to check in according to the itinerary supplied to 
 him, and obtain written confirmation from the carriers, or their handling 
 agents, of the number of hours delay and the reason for such delay.
 
 iii. Any claims caused or contributed to by the failure of or the fear 
 of the failure of or the inability of any equipment or any computer 
 program to recognise, interpret correctly or process any date as its 
 true calendar date or to continue to function correctly beyond that 
 date.
 
 iv. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence 
 other than exclusion 3.
 
 
 
SECTION 
 6. PERSONAL LIABILITY - UP TO £1,000,000 
 
The Underwriters 
 will indemnify up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person, any one event 
 or series of events and in all (including legal expenses), should an Insured 
 Person become legally liable to pay claims for accidental bodily injury 
 to the public or accidental loss of or damage to property, occurring during 
 the Operative Time.
 
 EXCLUSIONS
 
 The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :-
 
 
 i. Any 
 claims arising out of Bodily Injury to any member of an Insured Person's 
 family or household or to any employee. 
 
 ii. Any claims arising out accidental loss of or damage to, property 
 belonging to or in the care, custody or control of an Insured Person 
 or any member of his family or household or of any employee.
 
 iii. Any claims arising out of the ownership, possession or use of any 
 horse drawn or mechanically propelled vehicle (other than golf buggies), 
 aircraft, waterborne craft (other than sailboards, surfboards, canoes, 
 rowing dinghies, foot or hand propelled paddle boats, and inflatable 
 dinghies), firearms or animals. 
 
 iv. Any claims arising out of the ownership, possession, occupation 
 or use of lands or buildings. 
 
 v. Any claims arising out of the profession, occupation or business 
 of the Insured Person or arising out of liability assumed under a contract, 
 if such liability would not otherwise have attached. 
 
 vi. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
SPECIAL 
 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO SECTION 6 
 
1. The Insured 
 Person must not make any admission of liability whatsoever, or make any 
 arrangements, offer, promise or payment without the written consent of 
 the Underwriters.
 
 2. The Underwriters shall be entitled, if they so desire, to take over 
 and conduct in the name of the Insured Person, the defence of any claim 
 or to prosecute in his name for their own benefit any claims for indemnity 
 or damages or otherwise against any third party, and shall have full discretion 
 in the conduct of any negotiations or proceedings or the settlement of 
 any claim. The Insured Person shall, whenever possible, give all such 
 information and assistance as the Underwriters may require.
 
 
 SECTION 
 7. LEGAL EXPENSES - UP TO £25,000
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person, legal expenses incurred 
 by or on behalf of an Insured Person in the pursuit of a claim for damages 
 against a third party who has caused Bodily Injury to or illness or death 
 of an Insured Person by an Accident during the Operative Time. 
 
EXCLUSIONS
 
 The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :- 
 
 
i. Legal 
 expenses incurred without their written consent (which shall not be 
 unreasonably withheld).
 
 ii. Actions against travel agents, tour operators, Underwriters or their 
 agents, or an Insured Person's spouse or family. 
 
 iii. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence.
 
 
SPECIAL 
 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO SECTION 7 
 
1. Eastgate 
 Assistance., shall be entitled to nominate and appoint a legal representative 
 to act on behalf of an Insured Person and to have direct access at all 
 times to the legal representative. 
 
 2. The Underwriters reserve the right to withdraw at any stage and thereafter 
 they shall not be liable for any further expenses. 
 
 
SECTION 
 8. PERSONAL ACCIDENT - UP TO £50,000 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person in accordance with 
 the following Schedule of Compensation should he suffer Bodily Injury 
 during the Operative Time:- 
 
SCHEDULE 
 OF COMPENSATION 
 
 
1. Death 
 or 
 2. Permanent Total Loss of Sight of One or Both Eyes or
 3. Loss of One or More Limbs or
 4. Permanent Total Disablement (other than loss of sight of one or both 
 eyes or loss of limb(s)).
 
 
Provided 
 Always That:-
 
 
 1. Compensation 
 shall not be payable under more than one of the items of the Schedule 
 of Compensation in respect of the consequences of one Accident. 
 
 2. The total sum payable under this Section in respect of any one Insured 
 Person or any one or more Accidents shall not exceed in all, the largest 
 Sum Insured payable under any one of the items of the Schedule of Compensation.
 
 
 EXCLUSIONS 
 
 
 The Underwriters shall not be liable to pay for :-
 
 
i. Any 
 claims due to Winter Sports involving ski and ski-bob racing in international 
 or national events, services or inter-services championships, or heats 
 or officially organised practice or training for these events, ski-jumping, 
 ice hockey or the use of skeletons or bob-sleighs.
 
 ii. Any claims due to the Insured Person participating in:- 
 
 
a) mountaineering 
 and/or rock climbing normally involving the use of ropes and/or guides, 
 or potholing, or 
 
 b) motor competitions or professional sport. 
 
 c) aeronautics or aviation, other than as a passenger. 
 
 
iii. Any 
 claims whilst the Insured Person is participating in Military, Air Force 
 or Naval Service or Operations (other than reserve or volunteer training).
 
 iv. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
 
DISAPPEARANCE 
 EXTENSION 
 
It is agreed 
 that, provided Item 1 of the Schedule of Compensation is covered and subject 
 to all the terms, Definitions, Exclusions and Conditions of this Section, 
 if an Insured Person disappears during the Operative Time and the body 
 is not found within 90 days after such disappearance, and sufficient evidence 
 is produced satisfactory to the Underwriters that leads them inevitably 
 to the conclusion that he sustained Bodily Injury and that such injury 
 caused his death, Underwriters shall forthwith pay the death benefit under 
 this Section provided that the person or persons to whom such sum is paid 
 shall sign an undertaking to refund such sum to the Underwriters if the 
 Insured Person is subsequently found to be living. 
 
SPECIAL 
 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO INSURED PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE
 
 
 1. The 
 Sum Insured by Item 1 of the Schedule of Compensation, Death, shall 
 be limited to £5,000. 
 
 2. The definition of Permanent Total Disablement shall be amended to 
 read:-
 
 "PERMANENT 
 TOTAL DISABLEMENT" shall be deemed to have occurred when an Insured 
 Person has been totally disabled from attending full time education 
 for a period of 12 consecutive months and at the end of that period 
 is beyond hope of improvement and without prospect of being able to 
 undertake any gainful occupation or of being able to support him/herself 
 financially. 
 
 
 
SECTION 
 9. HOSPITAL BENEFIT - UP TO £1,500 
 
The 
 Underwriters will pay £50 for each complete 24 hour period, up to 
 a maximum of £1,500, that an Insured Person spends as an in-patient 
 in a hospital outside the United Kingdom.
 
 EXCLUSIONS 
 
 
The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :-
 
 
i. Any 
 claims due to Winter Sports involving ski and ski-bob racing in international 
 or national events, services or inter-services championships, or heats 
 or officially organised practice or training for these events, ski-jumping, 
 ice hockey or the use of skeletons or bob-sleighs.
 
 ii. Any claims due to the Insured Person participating in motor competitions 
 or professional sport. 
 
 iii. Any claims arising from pregnancy, childbirth or any medical complications 
 resulting therefrom if delivery is expected during a trip or within 
 2 months upon expiration thereof.
 
 iv. Any claims consequent upon Venereal Disease or any expenses incurred 
 either directly or indirectly in the treatment, diagnosis or counselling 
 of either Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (A.I.D.S.), A.I.D.S. Related 
 Complex (A.R.C.) or Human Immunodeficiency Virus (H.I.V.) howsoever 
 these have been acquired or may be named.
 
 v. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 
 10. ACCOMPANIED PERSONAL BAGGAGE, CLOTHING OR EFFECTS, BUSINESS EQUIPMENT, 
 SAMPLES AND MONEY 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person in the event of loss 
 of or damage to accompanied personal baggage, clothing or effects, business 
 equipment, samples and money (including reasonable expenses incurred as 
 a result of loss of money), during the Operative Time, subject to:-
 
 
 1. The 
 limit for personal baggage, clothing or effects which is stated in the 
 Schedule of Benefits 
 
 2. A limit for business equipment and business samples which is stated 
 in the schedule of Benefits. 
 
 3. A limit of £300 any one article or pair or set of articles. 
 
 4. A limit of £500 for business samples.
 
 5. A limit of £1,000 for money (cash £500). 
 
 
BAGGAGE 
 DELAY EXTENSION
 
 If accompanied 
 personal baggage, clothing, or effects is temporarily lost for more than 
 12 hours by the carrier, Underwriters will pay up to the Sum Insured for 
 the purchase of immediate necessities, but such payment will be deducted 
 from the final claim if the loss becomes permanent. Receipts for such 
 purchases must be provided. 
 
EXCLUSIONS
 
 The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :-
 
 
 i. Any 
 claims due to moth, vermin, wear and tear and gradual deterioration, 
 or money shortages due to error, omission or depreciation in value.
 
 
 ii. Any claims in respect of money not reported to the police or appropriate 
 authority. 
 
 iii. Any claims arising from confiscation or detention by customs or 
 any other authority.
 
 iv. Any claims in respect of business equipment or samples otherwise 
 insured. 
 
 v. Any claims in respect of valuables or money whilst in the custody 
 of a carrier.
 
 vi. Any claims arising out of electrical and/or mechanical breakdown. 
 
 
 vii. Any claims arising from the fraudulent use of credit cards, charge 
 cards or banker's cards, if the Insured Person and/or the Assured has 
 not reported the loss of the card to the issuing bank or company, and 
 otherwise not complied with the terms and conditions under which the 
 card was issued. The Underwriters liability shall be limited to any 
 loss not covered by any guarantee given by the issuing bank or company 
 to the Insured Person and/or Assured.
 
 viii. Any loss of or damage, directly or indirectly resulting from or 
 attributable to war, invasion, civil war, armed hostilities, rebellion, 
 revolution, insurrection, or military or usurped power, unless whilst 
 airborne or waterborne. 
 
 ix. Any claims caused or contributed to by the failure of or the fear 
 of the failure of or the inability of any equipment or any computer 
 program to recognise, interpret correctly or process any date as its 
 true calendar date or to continue to function correctly beyond that 
 date.
 
 x. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
Note:
 
 
1. Money 
 shall mean:- 
 
 
a) Cash, 
 bank or currency notes, signed travellers cheques, letters of credit, 
 postal orders, passports, green cards, petrol coupons or travel tickets, 
 or 
 
 b) Credit cards, charge cards, or banker's cards, resulting in the 
 fraudulent use thereof. 
 
 
2. In respect 
 of foreign currency and signed travellers cheques only, cover shall 
 be effective from the time of collection from a bank or travel agent 
 or from 3 days prior to commencement of a trip, whichever is the later, 
 and up to 2 days after completion of a trip, or time of conversion or 
 encashment, whichever is the earlier.
 
 
 SPECIAL 
 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO SECTION 10 
 
The Insured 
 Person shall, in the event of any loss or damage, take all reasonable 
 steps to make a recovery. If the Insured Person purchases a comparable 
 replacement for a lost or damaged article, the Underwriters shall pay 
 for the replacement cost, providing that such article was less than 2 
 years old at the time, and that evidence of the original purchase is provided. 
 For articles of 2 years old or more, or if the article is not actually 
 replaced, or evidence of the original purchase cannot be provided, payment 
 shall be based upon the value of such article at the time of loss, or 
 the cost of repair. 
 
 
SECTION 
 11. LOSS OF PASSPORT - UP TO £500 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person for reasonable additional 
 expenses incurred in obtaining a replacement passport, should the original 
 be lost or stolen during the Operative Time. 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 
 
The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :- 
 
 
i. Anything 
 included within the exclusions shown in Section 10 of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 
 12. HI-JACK, KIDNAP AND DETENTION - UP TO £15,000 
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person the following expenses 
 incurred in the event of detainment, internment, hi-jack or kidnap during 
 the Operative Time.
 
 i. £100 
 per completed 24 hour period of detention, up to 50 days. 
 
 ii. Legal, travel, accommodation and related incidental expenses reasonably 
 and necessarily incurred to secure the release of an Insured Person. 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 
 
The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for:
 
 
 i. Any 
 claims relating to payment of ransom monies. 
 
 ii. Any claims arising out of any act(s) by an Insured Person which 
 would be considered an offence by a court of the United Kingdom if committed 
 in the United Kingdom. 
 
 iii. Any claims where the detainment, internment, hi-jack or kidnap 
 of an Insured Person is for a period of less than 3 days.
 
 iv. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
 
SPECIAL 
 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO SECTION 12. 
 
 
1. The 
 Insured Person has not engaged in any political or other activity which 
 would prejudice this Insurance. 
 
 2. The Insured Person has no family or business connections that could 
 be expected to prejudice this Insurance or increase Underwriters' risk. 
 
 
 3. All visas and documents are in order. 
 
 
 
SECTION 
 13. CAR HIRE EXCESS WAIVER - UP TO £250
 
The Underwriters 
 will pay up to the Sum Insured each Insured Person for any monetary excess 
 or deductible that the Insured Person is legally liable to pay in respect 
 of loss or damage to a rental vehicle hired by the Insured Person during 
 the Operative Time.
 
 EXCLUSIONS
 
The Underwriters 
 shall not be liable to pay for :-
 
 i. Any claims 
 arising out of loss or damage due to the operation of the rental vehicle 
 in violation of the terms of the rental agreement. 
 
 ii. Any claims due to wear and tear, gradual deterioration, damage from 
 insects or vermin, inherent vice, latent defect or damage.
 
 iii. Anything included within the General Exclusions of this Evidence. 
 
 
SPECIAL 
 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO SECTION 13. 
 
The rental 
 car must be rented from a licensed rental agency. As part of the hiring 
 agreement, the Insured Person must take up all comprehensive motor insurance 
 or waivers offered by the rental organisation, whether discretionary or 
 mandatory, against loss or damage to the rental vehicle during the rental 
 period. The Insured Person must comply with all the requirements of the 
 rental organisation under the hiring agreement and of the vehicle insurer. 
 
 
 
 
 
©RapidInsure.co.uk and associates
All visitors to our website are covered by our Terms of Service
