
Introduction
Buildings & Contents Insurance
Introduction 
Naturally, you want to be sure that the things most precious to you are in
the Safest possible hands. Insure your home,
contents and fine art with Home & Legacy and you can rest assured that
you and your family&#146;s most valued Possessions 
are truly safe and sound. Simply submit
the completed application form or call Citymain
direct on 
01252 819504 and we will provide you with an immediate
quotation. 
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS ONLY AVAILABLE FOR UK
RESIDENTS
Policy details 
Coverage 
Accidental Damage:- Included automatically to contents. 
World-wide Cover:- Included for contents, fine art and personal possessions. 
Fine Art and Antiques:- Includes all risks of physical loss or damage including
breakage, restoration costs and any resulting depreciation in value. 
In the event of a claim, our unique inflation protection clause enables works of art to
increase in value by up to 200% of the original declared value when your policy
Part A Buildings 
In addition to your house, outbuildings, greenhouses, conservatory, swimming pool,
patios, hard tennis courts, driveways, footpaths, terraces, walls, gates, hedges and
fences being protected, you are also covered for:- 
Fire, storm, flood, collision, vandalism and subsidence. You are also covered for
underground cables, pipes and accidental breakage to fixed glass, double glazing and
sanitary ware; 
Loss of rent, architect and surveyors fees are covered up to 20% of the buildings sum
insured; 
Outdoor items; 
Property owner&#146;s liability and defective premises liability are covered for up to
£2,000,000; 
The sum insured for buildings will be automatically adjusted upwards to keep pace with
inflation. 
Accidental damage can be included for an additional £25.00 
You are not covered for the following which are some of the main exclusions: 
The deductible of £100 unless the claim exceeds £10,000 (when no deductible applies
except for subsidence claims where the deductible is always £1000); 
Accidental damage when the Buildings are commercially let to a third party (other than
relatives); 
Outdoor items not covered against storm or flood. 
Part B Contents 
This part of the policy covers all your household goods and personal property,
furniture and furnishings. Accidental damage is included at no additional cost. Coverage
includes fire, flood, theft, burglary, collision, vandalism, audio equipment and
televisions, mirrors and freezer contents. Contents are also covered when temporarily
removed from the premises anywhere in the world, as well as: 
Loss of rent and alternative accommodation are covered for up to 20% of your contents
and fine art sums insured; 
Replacement of locks are covered for up to £1,000; 
Liability as occupier and legal liability are covered for up to £2,000,000; 
The sum insured for contents will be adjusted upwards to keep pace with inflation. You
only need list those items in excess of £15,000. 
You are not covered for the following which are some of the main exclusions: 
The deductible of £100 unless the claim exceeds £10,000 (when no deductible applies)
Accidental damage or theft when the premises is commercially let to a third party
(other than relatives); 
The most insurers will pay for items of gold, silver, gold and silver plate, jewellery
and pearls is £5,000 unless such items, pair or set are individually insured under the
more relevant sections of the policy (part C & D). 
The excess can be reduced to £50 for an additional £75.00 
Part C Fine Art 
You are covered for fine art, antiques, objet d&#146; art and items of gold, silver,
gold and silver plate and other precious metals. 
This attractive cover includes accidental damage or breakage covering physical loss or
damage, restoration and any resulting depreciation in value following and insured peril
whilst in your home or anywhere in the world. 
We can also provide you with automatic coverage for new purchases you acquire anywhere
in the world for up to 15% of your sum insured and giving you 60 days to notify Insurers. 
In the event of a claim, our unique inflation protection clause enables works of art to
increase in value by up to 200% of the original declared value when your policy incepted
to take account of a rise in value that may have resulted since the last valuation. (For
example the death of an artist). This is useful in respect of loss or damage to a single
item, pair or set, however please note that the most that the insurer will pay is the
total sum insured declared on the proposal form and schedule. 
You only need to list those items, pairs or sets with a value in excess of £15000. 
You are not covered for the following which is one of the main exclusions: 
Loss or damage from unattended vehicles. 
Part D Personal Possessions 
You are covered for personal possessions including jewellery, furs, money, credit cards
and pedal cycles. This extremely broad cover includes accidental damage and any physical
loss or damage whilst anywhere in the world. 
We can also provide you with automatic coverage for new purchases you acquire anywhere
in the world for up to 15% of your sum insured and giving you 60 days to notify insurers. 
You only need list those items, pairs or sets with a value in excess of £5,000. 
The maximum sum insured for money is £250 
The maximum sum insured for credit cards is £500 
You are not covered for the following which are some of the main exclusions: 
The deductible of £100 unless the claim exceeds £10,000 (when no deductible applies);
Damage to sports equipment whilst in use; 
Loss of jewellery from your baggage unless such baggage was under your supervision and
carried by you; 
Loss or damage to pedal cycles which are not securely locked when they are left
unattended. 
UNDERWRITTEN BY NIG SKANDIA 
Simply submit the completed
application form or call Citymain direct on 
01252 819504 and we will provide you with an immediate
quotation. 
We can also offer Family Legal Protection
and Insured Property Assistance for and additional £29.75 
You can be provided with a Home & Legacy Helpline for advice on any
private legal problems at any time, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 
Family Legal Protection provides a lawyer to represent you in legal
disputes, after using the helpline to notify your claim. 
Up to £25,000 legal fees are allowed per case, with no limit to the number of claims you
can make. 
You can also be provided with a 24 hour Home & Legacy priority service helpline. 
This service will give you access to an emergency repair service for
essential services and appliances, by approved tradesmen. Insurers will pay for the
initial call-out charge, up to a total of £70, plus labour charges up to a total of £70.
In addition they will pay for parts and materials up to a total of £100. 
You will not be covered for the following which are some of the main
exclusions. 
Legal fees incurred without the Insurer&#146;s prior agreement; Fines; 
Consumer disputes over motor vehicles; 
The first £30 of any legal fees; 
Any system or equipment which has not been properly installed, maintained
or repaired; 
Replacement or adjustment to any decorative or cosmetic part of any
equipment; 
Lighting of boilers or the correct operation or routine of time or
temperature controls. 
 
Copyright Citymain Insurance.
