
Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our commercial 
 quotation system will enable you to quote for a variety of products and 
 the schemes currently available are;
 
Liability
 This comprehensive 
 Master Tradesman policy is for sole traders, partnerships and small limited 
 companies in the building and allied trades. Cover incorporates Public 
 Liability Indemnity Limits of £500,000, £1,000,000, £2,000,000 and £5,000,000 
 with an option for Employer’s Liability Indemnity Limit of £10,000,000. 
 Limited Tools cover is available and the special features of this policy 
 also include a large variety of acceptable trades, cover for bona fide 
 sub contractors, products liability, contractual liability, indemnity 
 to principle and injury to working partners. Full notes and details of 
 this policy are accessible from the quotation system.
 
Office
 This is a competitively 
 priced comprehensive and flexible policy, which offers many special features 
 and benefits so that the Insured can enjoy top quality cover at an attractive 
 price. Contents cover includes material damage, theft, money, glass and 
 liability covers with an option to add buildings, business interruption 
 and book debts. Full notes and details of this policy are accessible from 
 the quotation system.
 
Office at Home
 This policy is 
 intended to meet the general insurance needs that arise from the business 
 of running an office from home premises. This easy to understand policy 
 provides all your cover requirements with a choice of sums insured of 
 £7,500 or £12,500 with a limit of £5,000 electronic office equipment included 
 in the total cover you select. Premiums are competitively priced and full 
 details of this cover are accessible from the quotation system.
 
Revenue Protector
 The cover is designed 
 for people classed as having professional occupations such as vets, solicitors, 
 dentists, accountants and will help cover the cost of providing a locum 
 or the cost of continuing practice expenses if an illness or accident 
 stops them or an associate working. The amount of benefit received is 
 subject to documentary proof of expenses incurred and revenue lost and 
 benefits start immediately [subject to a minimum of 7 days continuous 
 incapacity]. Benefits continue until they or their associates are fit 
 enough to return to work or until they have been incapacitated for 52 
 weeks, whichever is the sooner. The age limits are 65 for sickness cover 
 and 70 for accident cover. Full details of this product are available 
 from the quotation system.
 
Shops
 Cover under this 
 contract is comprehensive, competitive and includes material damage, theft, 
 business interruption, money, glass, liability covers with an automatic 
 seasonal increase on the stock in trade. Optional covers include buildings, 
 personal accident and sickness and employee dishonesty. Apart from providing 
 a quotation the underwriting notes and full details are accessible from 
 the system.
 
Commercial Property 
 Owners
 This policy is 
 designed for owners, head lessees and mortgages who are responsible for 
 insuring tenanted commercial and industrial premises and is suitable for 
 single properties or up to 5 large portfolios. Cover can be tailored according 
 to the requirements at each location. Standard cover includes the buildings, 
 Public Liability at £2,000,000 Indemnity Limit and fixed glass. Optional 
 extensions available include accidental damage and loss of rent covers. 
 For a full summary of cover see the notes section on the quotation system.
 
Quotes are valid 
 for 30 days
 Quotations are 
 only valid for a period of 30 days and if you are quoting for a case where 
 the risk date is more than 30 days ahead we may have to re-quote the business 
 prior to it being placed on risk. This is due to various changes, such 
 as a rate or IPT increase, which may invalidate the quotation.
 
Non Standard Business
 There are a number 
 of types of commercial business that we are unable to put onto the quotation 
 system because of the type of information required or they need to be 
 individually underwritten. Quotation request forms can be accessed from 
 the system and these include hotels and guesthouses, property owners, 
 commercial combined, restaurants, liability, shops and offices. Theses 
 forms are for businesses that are refer trades on the quotation system 
 or fall outside the normal scope. We have an excellent panel of insurers 
 for commercial insurance including Axa, CGU, Lloyds, Norman, NIG Skandia, 
 Norwich Union and Zurich. Most quotations will be provided within 48 hours 
 but more complicated risks might take longer. Other areas we can cover 
 include motor traders, surgeries, contractors, care homes and some of 
 the more unusual ones include weddings, weather cover and special events.
 
Payment
 We can accept payment 
 by credit card, cheque or direct debit where the premium exceeds £100.
 
 
- CREDIT CARD : please 
 collect the clients credit card details [card number, name, expiry date 
 and issue number if applicable].
 
- CHEQUE : please 
 ensure that the cheque is made payable to CETA Limited.
 
- DIRECT DEBIT : 
 please ensure that the mandate is fully completed, signed and dated 
 in the necessary areas and accompanied with the 20% deposit cheque made 
 payable to CETA Limited.
 
 
Problems / Advice
 If you have any 
 technical problem with your quotation system then please refer to the 
 software support department.
 
Staff in our commercial 
 department are happy to offer advice and deal with your enquiries either 
 by email, fax or telephone. All telephone calls are queued so that your 
 call is answered in strict rotation.
 
 
 
 
