
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance MPPI PPI Quotes Company UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company Information
 
The Goodfellows Group | 
 On The Move | Two 
 way Traffic | Terms
 
Terms and conditions of use
 
 
This web site is operated by On The Move Limited and forms 
 part of a network of sites that are grouped together under 
 the a-website.net umbrella. Please read the following terms 
 and conditions carefully. By entering the web site you agree 
 to be bound by the following terms and conditions: 
 
Copyright 
 The copyright and all other rights in all of the material 
 on this website are owned by On The Move Limited or the 
 material is included with the permission of the rights owner. 
 You may copy material on this website for your own private 
 or domestic use only. All other copying is prohibited. All 
 company or brand names used in this website are trademarks. 
 
 
This website 
 Whilst On The Move Limited seeks to ensure that the information 
 on this website is accurate and complete, it does not accept 
 any liability arising from any inaccuracy or omission in 
 or the use of or reliance on the information on this site. 
 You are advised to verify the accuracy of any information 
 before relying on it.
 
 Similarly, whilst we strive to ensure the accuracy of 
 the rest of the content of our site, you should verify any 
 information before acting on it, since On The Move Limited 
 cannot be liable for any loss, damage or breach of contract 
 you might suffer by placing reliance upon that information. 
 Where goods and services are being advertised through third 
 party vendors, every effort is made to ensure the accuracy 
 of the prices on this site. However, On The Move Limited 
 cannot be held responsible and accepts no liability if the 
 actual prices for which the goods are being sold differs 
 from that advertised on this site.
 
 The Internet
 The Internet is an inherently unstable medium, and errors, 
 omissions, interruptions and delays of service may occur 
 at any time. As a result, On The Move Limited accepts no 
 ongoing obligation or responsibility in respect of such 
 errors, omissions or interruptions. 
 
Any arrangements concerning any products which you may 
 be able to receive through this site will be provided to 
 you by companies other than On The Move Limited. On The 
 Move Limited therefore does not accept any responsibility 
 or liability in respect of such material or in the fulfilment 
 of such products.
 
Links On this website 
 You may be offered automatic links to other sites which 
 we hope will be of interest and use. However, On The Move 
 Limited does not accept any responsibility for the content 
 of those websites and these links are not endorsements of 
 any products of services in such sites. 
 
Sites to which you link through this Site (including, without 
 limitation, any site provided by a third party but branded 
 as part of the A-website.net group of sites) are fully independent 
 of this Site and we have no control and accept no liability 
 in respect of your use or inability to use them or any of 
 the content of such sites.
 
 Products and services 
 Whilst most companies listed or linked to via this site 
 make every effort to ensure the accuracy of the details 
 they produce, we cannot guarantee that the information is 
 correct. You should verify all details, especially those 
 making any offer of work or purchase or sale. In addition, 
 you should check that any services mentioned are as described, 
 since we accept no liability with respect to any of the 
 products, information, material or services offered or provided 
 by other organisations listed, or linked to on this Site, 
 nor do we endorse any of those organisations or any of their 
 offerings. 
 
Should you decide to appoint any of these organisations 
 to provide a service for you, the contract will be directly 
 between you and the relevant organisation - On The Move 
 Limited in no way participates. We will have no contractual 
 involvement, and will not be liable in contract or otherwise 
 for any products, information, materials or services provided 
 to you by any of these organisations. 
 
Limitation of liability 
 Neither we nor any of our sister, parent or subsidiary companies 
 will be liable to you, whether for negligence, breach of 
 contract, misrepresentation or otherwise, for any direct, 
 indirect or consequential damage (including without limitation, 
 loss of profit, goodwill, business opportunity or anticipated 
 savings), suffered by you as a result of your use of the 
 site, or any linked through to from it, or any information, 
 materials, software or services provided on or through it 
 or downloaded from it, or your inability to use the site, 
 any error in the provision of this site or any computer 
 virus transmitted through this site. 
 
Jurisdiction
 These Terms and Conditions and any matter relating to this 
 site shall be governed by English law and the English courts 
 shall have non-exclusive jurisdiction in respect of them. 
 
 
Complaints
 Customer complaints should in all cases be addressed to: 
 
 The Managing Director,
 On The Move Limited, 
 PO Box 23374,
 Rotherhithe, 
 London SE16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bookmark this page
 
 
 
 Search 
 the web: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MPPI 
 quotes
 About MPPI
 Policy features
 Policy wording
 Making claims
 Company information 
 
 More MPPI websites 
 
 Back to homepage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgages
 Remortgages
 Loans 
 Credit cards
 Critical 
 illness 
 Life insurance
 - 
 Term life asurance 
 - Mortgage 
 protection
 Income protection
 Dental 
 insurance 
 PMI medical insurance
 Travel 
 insurance 
 
 More subjects... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
