
James Hampden Terms of Business - Personal
 
 
 
 
 
Terms of Business
 
 
This Terms of Business statement is designed to explain clearly to 
you the relationship between you and James Hampden. Please take the time 
to read it and contact us as soon as possible should you have any queries 
or questions you would like answered.
 
 
Our Service
 
 
We are an Independent Insurance Intermediary.
 
 
Our service includes:
 
 advising on your insurance needs;
 
 arranging your insurance cover with insurers to meet 
your requirements; and
 
 helping you with any ongoing changes.
 
 
As part of our service, we will assist you with any claim you may need 
to make.
 
 
We also issue policies and handle claims on behalf of certain insurers.
 
 
We act on your behalf in arranging your insurance.
 
 
We offer a wide range of personal insurance products, and have access 
to leading insurers in the marketplace.
 
 
Charges
 
 
Our normal method of charging is that the premium quoted to you is 
fully inclusive of Insurance Premium Tax and any administration charges. Where 
there are any variations, we will explain this clearly to you.
 
 
We accept payment by guaranteed cheque or any of the following Debit or 
Credit cards: Visa, Mastercard, Delta and Switch.
 
 
You may be able to spread your payments through insurers' instalment 
schemes or a credit scheme which we have arranged with one of our approved 
finance providers. We will give you full information about your payment 
options when we discuss your insurance in detail.
 
 
The General Insurance Standards Council
 
 
We are regulated by the General Insurance Standards Council.
 
 
The General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) regulates sales, 
advisory and service standards, to make sure that general insurance customers 
are treated fairly.
 
 
We will endeavour to provide a standard of service that will leave you 
no cause for complaint.
 
 
However, if you feel that we have not met a satisfactory standard of 
service, you can take the following action:
 
 
 In the first instance you can write to us: For the 
attention of the Operations Manager, James Hampden Insurance Brokers Limited, 
The Station, Station Road, Ashby de la Zouch, Leicestershire LE65 2GL. 
 
 
 If the matter remains unresolved, you may then wish to 
refer the matter directly to your Insurers, if your policy is not underwritten 
by Lloyd's of London and you require the contact details for your Insurer, 
please contact us and we will be pleased to provide you with the information. 
 
 
 If your policy is underwritten by Lloyd's of London, you 
should direct your enquiry to: Complaints and Advisory Department Lloyd's, 
One Lime Street, London EC3M 7HA.
 
 
 As a GISC member, we belong to their dispute resolution 
facility. In the unlikely event that the matter is not brought to a 
satisfactory conclusion by ourselves and/or your insurers, you should then 
refer the matter to: General Insurance Standards Council, 110 Cannon Street, 
London EC4N 6EU. 
 
 
 If, after following the above procedure your complaint has 
not been resolved to your satisfaction, you have the right to refer the matter 
to the Insurance Ombudsman at the following address: Insurance Ombudsman 
Bureau, City Gate One, 135 Park Street, London SE1 9EA.
 
 
Where any of our products and/or services are not covered by the GISC 
code, we will give you full details before you make any commitment to buy.
 
 
A copy of the General Insurance Standards Council Private Customer Code 
is available on request from either ourselves or the GISC at the address 
shown above. 
 
 
What we ask of you
 
 
It is your responsibility to provide complete and accurate information 
to insurers when you take out your insurance policy, throughout the life of 
your policy, and when you renew your insurance.
 
 
It is important that you ensure that all statements you make on 
proposal forms, claim forms and other documents are full and accurate.
 
 
Please note that if you fail to disclose any material information to 
your insurers, this could invalidate your insurance cover - this could result 
in part or all of any claim you make not being paid.
 
 
Documentation
 
 
We may keep certain documents such as your insurance policy documents 
or certificate whilst we are waiting for payment of premiums and 
administration charges.
 
 
In these circumstances, we will ensure that you receive full details of 
your insurance cover and will provide you with any documents which you are 
required to have by law.
 
 
Confidentiality
 
 
All personal information about you will be treated as private and 
confidential.
 
 
We will only use and disclose the information we have about you in the 
normal course of arranging and administering your insurance, and will not 
disclose any information to any other parties without your consent.
 
 
We may use information we hold about you to provide information to you 
about other products and services which we offer and which we feel may be 
appropriate to you. If you do not wish to receive this information from us, 
please advise us accordingly.
 
 
Under the Data Protection Act 1998, you have the right to see personal 
information about you that we hold on our records. If you have any queries 
relating to this, please write to our Operations Manager at The Station, 
Station Road, Ashby de la Zouch, Leicestershire LE65 2GL.
 
 
 
