
 
Regulation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation
 
 AssureNet UK is an independent Internet 
 company which provides as an information, pricing and execution resource 
 on non regulated, UK Life 
 Assurance and 
 Protection Products. AssureNet UK is not an Independent Financial Adviser 
 and not regulated. AssureNet UK introduces clients to Internet Independent 
 Financial Advisers 
 when they 
 are seeking 
 advice, and 
 only 
 if the client asks.
 
 The following reflects our understanding, expressed, we believe, in a 
 useful and practical way.
 
 Regulation exists to protect you, the customer, against 
 being 'sold' unsuitable products. Regulation 
 applies to the agents (tied or independent) who place your business and 
 is a complex area. The main regulator in the UK for Financial Advisers 
 is the Personal Investment Authority. Our partner IIFAs are all 
 regulated by the PIA. The Financial Services Act 1986 sets out the legal 
 rules for selling financial services and advice; compliance with the Act 
 is policed by the Financial 
 Services Authority. 
 
 Non Regulated Contracts
 Practically, Life and Pensions products 
 fall into two categories: Regulated and Non Regulated. Term Life, Critical 
 Illness and Income Protection / Permanent Health, because they 
 are simple protection products, are non regulated. However, the insured 
 persons (or for a joint policy, either of the insured's) age at the end 
 of the policy term must be less than 70 for a policy that has a term greater 
 than 10 years. If you independently investigate products, pick the contract 
 and company and decide that you want to buy any Life and Pensions product 
 in this product class, you can simply instruct an agent to do so on your 
 behalf. This reduced work means the agent can discount fees. If you do 
 not specify the contract and insurer or at any time request advice as 
 to suitability from the agent, the relationship may 
 become an advisory one for the agent. Only regulated Financial Advisers 
 can provide advice.
 
 Regulated Contracts 
 
 Some products such 
 as Endowments, Pensions, Annuities 
 etc., are regulated. You can instruct an agent to buy something 
 you have chosen which is a Regulated Product, but the onus and duty of 
 care the agent faces means that the agent will require you to provide 
 more information so that he/she can establish suitability and give you 
 due care and Best Advice. 
 The agent handling the business will typically obtain from the 
 client a 'Fact Find' or 'Client Record Form', which gives details of the 
 personal circumstances, needs and risk preference of the client, in order 
 to point out the available options and /or make recommendations.
 
 Our IIFAs
 
 The third party IIFAs who we introduce you to give 
 advice are authorised by the PIA to carry out investment business and 
 are regulated. As regulated professionals, they need to comply with various 
 procedures intended to protect the client and maintain high standards 
 of business practice. They are reviewed by the regulator at least annually. 
 They cannot hold or accept money from clients. If you take out a regulated 
 Life, Pension or Protection contract, you must pay the Insurance Company 
 direct by cheque or Direct Debit Mandate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
