
Long Term Care (old age)
Saveinsurance House Insurance Home Insurance Health Insurance Bupa property homeowners and Travel Insurance, and Other Financial Advice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long Term Care
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long Term Care
 
BUPA
 FutureCare
 
If you need long term care, who better to look after you than BUPA?
 
Read the information below, then complete the enquiry form at the end
 of this page for more details...
 
The chances are that one in four people are likely to need some form of
 specialist nursing care later in life.
 
It's hard enough to guess at the particular level of care you may need,
 but even harder to imagine how much it will cost and who will pay for it.
 This is where BUPA FutureCare can help you.
 
If you're aged between 50 and 84 and you live in the UK, Channel
 Islands or Isle of Man, then read on. 
 
 
How
 does BUPA FutureCare work?
 
What
 are the options open to me?
 
What
 would I get from BUPA FutureCare...and when?
 
What isn't
 included?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does BUPA FutureCare work?
 Choice and independence when you really need it
 BUPA FutureCare works as a supplement to any personal income you may have,
 by providing regular monthly payments to help you meet the cost of ongoing
 care at home or in a nursing home.
 
 
 
When you consider that nursing home fees can easily cost between £18,000
 and £25,000 (*see note) per year, it's easy to see how your hard-earned
 savings could vanish if you don't have some financial help arranged. Your
 local authority may not be able to provide for the care you need, as
 although resources vary from area to area, it may be that your local
 authority has insufficient funds for long term care.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What are the options open to me?
 Flexible options for your long term care
 
BUPA FutureCare has two schemes: 
 
BUPA FutureCare with Security and 
 BUPA FutureCare with Choice.
 
 
Both schemes have:
 
 
 a maximum monthly benefit of £3,000
 a choice of cover options: choose from a Moderate amount of care
 (most likely to be received at home), Continuous Care (more suitable
 for the level of care received in a home or nursing home), or a
 combination of both
 the ability to qualify for 'special assistance' benefit, to go
 towards the cost of special aids or equipment to improve the quality
 of your life, e.g. having door ramps installed if you're receiving
 care at home, or helping towards paying for professional care during a
 break for relatives or friends who may be caring for you
 the benefit of a personal emergency alarm system if you're being
 nursed at home
 a choice of payment terms: lump sum, monthly or annual, with a
 discount for annual payment
 options to apply to purchase life cover to help protect the
 subscriptions you've paid
 subscriptions waived if you're receiving monthly benefits under the
 BUPA FutureCare scheme 
 
 
These are the key differences between the two schemes: 
 
 
 
 
BUPA FutureCare with Security
 
 BUPA can, through the BUPA care advisory service, help you with the
 arrangements for your long term care as soon as you need it, for as
 long as necessary - which can help take the pressure off you and your
 family at a difficult time
 BUPA can pay benefits to whoever is providing your care, such as a
 nursing agency or nursing home
 automatically increased in line with increases in the Retail Price
 Index up to an annual maximum increase of 15 per cent, to help protect
 your benefits against inflation
 BUPA will help refund any care costs you have incurred during the
 required three months waiting period - from the date you make a valid
 claim, during which time you are not entitled to benefits 
 
 
 
 
 you or your family have the opportunity to make all the key
 decisions, either before or at the time you actually need long term
 care. If you prefer you can let BUPA help you, as described above
 you decide whether you want to pay the monthly sum to you, direct to
 the care provider or if you wish to use the BUPA care advisory service
 you can arrange for your chosen level of cover to be index-linked
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What would I get from BUPA FutureCare...and when?
 
You can claim on your BUPA FutureCare cover if increasing age, illness
 or injury prevents you from carrying out a certain number of key
 activities of daily living such as washing, dressing, moving from room to
 room on level surfaces; or if your mental health becomes impaired as in
 Alzheimer's disease.
 
Payment of your regular monthly benefits normally starts after the
 three months waiting period. Benefits will be paid on a lifetime basis,
 provided that you continue to qualify for the same benefits.
 
However, with BUPA FutureCare with Choice, if you choose either the
 Moderate or Continuous Care options you can select a shorter period of
 time - either two or three years, or a longer waiting period of 12 or 14
 months for which benefits will be paid. This would help reduce the costs
 of your subscriptions, and may be suitable if you have some assets of your
 own that you would use to buy care if necessary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
What isn't included?
 
There is just one exclusion - benefits are not payable if you receive
 care outside the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
 
Contact us
 
This is only a brief summary about the benefits of BUPA FutureCare. If
 you think that BUPA FutureCare is something you’d like to discuss in
 more detail, or read more about, please contact us. You can 
 email us, or call us direct on 0800
 919 165, quoting: 6266. Lines are open Monday to Friday, from 9am
 to 5pm.
 
*Source: M&G Reinsurance - Long Term Care Briefing Report
 
 
 
 &
 PPP Healthcare 
 Scottish Widows 
 Norwich Union
 
 
To Order A Personalised
 Quotation For
 
LONG TERM CARE OR IMMEDIATE
 CARE
 
 Please complete the form below; we
 will email your quotation within 7 Working Days.
 
 
 
 
 
 
What kind of comment would you like to send?
 
 
 
Brochure Get
 Quote* Suggestion 
 
 
 * Get Quote; This means we manually
 prepare a personalised quotation that is sent by email to
 you within 7working days. 
 We acknowledge receipt of your quote order within the
 hour.
 
 
 
 
Enter your comments in the space provided below:
 
If you need a quote please include
 your ages and sex and whether you require immediate care quotes
 of long term care quotes.
 
 
 
 
Please Fully Complete Your Details:
 
 
 
 
 
 Name
 
 
 E-mail
 
 
 Address
 
 
 Address
 
 
 City
 
 
 Post Code
 
 
 Tel
 
 
 Your Age
 
 
 Spouse
 Age 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check here if you are you an existing client of BUPA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This theme Copyright © 2000 TWC
 Graphics Design and its respective artists.
 
 
 
 
 
