
Direct Choice Insurance uninsured loss policy wording
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome to the Direct Choice Insurance Website
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Policy wording for Uninsured Loss Recovery
 
In 
 the event of an accident that may give rise to a claim under this 
 certificate:
 
1. Ensure that full details of the claim are passed to your 
 intermediary with a request that these details are forwarded to 
 Uninsured Loss Recoveries Ltd, Station House, Station Road, Knebworth, 
 SG3 6HL, Hertfordshire.
 
2. Take no action with regard to recovery of uninsured losses until 
 you hear from Uninsured Loss Recoveries Limited.
 
3. Note that costs and expenses incurred prior to underwriter's 
 consent are not covered. No contact should therefore be made with 
 solicitors until authorized to do so by Uninsured Loss Recoveries 
 Limited.
 
4. Claims enquiries: weekdays Monday to Friday 9.15am to 5.00pm - 
 telephone 01438 814533.
 
This document is a legally binding contract of insurance between you 
 (the person insured) and us (Equity Red Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's). 
 Equity Red Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's has agreed to insure you under 
 the terms, conditions and exceptions contained in this document. The 
 insurance provided by this document covers any liability, loss or damage 
 that occurs during any period of insurance for which you have paid or 
 agreed to pay the premium.
 
Signed for and on behalf of Equity Red Star Motor Policies at 
 Lloyd's.
 
D.R. Heath 
 
Underwriter. 
 
Schedule of Insurance
 
Principal: 
 
(A) Uninsured Loss Recoveries Ltd, Station House, Station Road, 
 Knebworth SG3 6HL and (B) any intermediary to whom this facility has 
 been granted by Uninsured Loss Recoveries Ltd (C) John Holman & Sons 
 Ltd, Minster House, Arthur Street, London EC4R 9AB.
 
Person Insured 
 
Any person who at the time of the Insured Incident has a current 
 membership certificate issued by the Principal (A) or (B) or (C) and has 
 paid the appropriate premium.
 
Period of Insurance 
 
Concurrent with the period of insurance under the motor policy issued 
 to the person insured. Not exceeding 12 months.
 
Cover. 
 
The costs of pursuing civil claims arising from any incident relating 
 to the use of a motor car, motorcycle or any commercial vehicle in 
 respect of which motor vehicle insurance is in force through the agency 
 of the issuing intermediary and which is being used in accordance with 
 the terms and conditions of the motor policy which directly results in:-
 
(I) The death or personal injury of and/or uninsured losses incurred 
 by the person insured or any authorized drive or occupant of the person 
 insured's vehicle including a passenger of a motorcycle provided that 
 such passenger is carried on a properly constructed passenger seat.
 
Limit of Indemnity 
 
£50,000 any one insured incident.
 
Premium 
 
As agreed with the Principal.
 
Territorial Limits 
 
 
a) Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and the Channel 
 Islands - all motor vehicles.
 
b) Southern Ireland, France, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, 
 Finland, Greece, Holland, Norway, Sweden, Italy, Switzerland, 
 Portugal, Spain, Andorra, Gibraltar, Iceland, Liechtenstein, 
 Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino and Vatican City - private cars, 
 motorcycles and commercial vehicles up to 35 cwt only excluding 
 vehicles with a seating capacity in excess of 12.
 
 
Definitions.
 
'Legal costs and expenses' shall mean solicitors costs on a standard 
 basis and fees and disbursements reasonably incurred by Principal (A) or 
 any claims adjuster or solicitor appointed with the Underwriter's 
 consent to act for the person insured and the cost of any civil 
 proceedings incurred by an opponent for which the Person Insured may be 
 liable by order of court or by agreement with the consent of the 
 underwriters.
 
'Insured Incident' shall mean any accident which takes place within 
 the territorial limits which causes:
 
 
I. damage to the motor vehicle including any trailer attached 
 thereto.
 
II. damage to any personal property owned by the Person Insured 
 whilst the property is in or on the motor vehicle provided such 
 property has not been acquired by him for the purposes of his business 
 trade or profession.
 
III. the death of or injury to a Person Insured whilst in or getting 
 into or out of the motor vehicle or getting on to or off of the 
 vehicle if such a vehicle is a motorcycle.
 
 
'Motor Vehicle' shall mean the motor car, motorcycle or commercial 
 vehicle in respect of which motor vehicle insurance has been arranged by 
 the Person Insured.
 
'Claims Adjuster' shall mean any claims negotiator, adjuster or 
 assessor or other appropriately qualified person, firm or company 
 appointed by the Underwriters to act for the Person Insured.
 
'Solicitors' shall mean the solicitor or firm of solicitors or other 
 appropriately qualified person, firm or company appointed under 
 Condition 6 to act for the Person Insured.
 
'Limit of Indemnity' shall mean the monetary limit specified in the 
 schedule and is the maximum sum payable by the insurers for all insured 
 incidents which are related in time or by cause after aggregation of the 
 costs and expenses of their opponents insofar as the person insured are 
 liable to pay them.
 
'Person Insured's Representative' shall mean the intermediary through 
 whom this insurance was arranged.
 
'Underwriters' (Equity Red Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's)
 
'Equity Red Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's is made up of the Lloyd's 
 Underwriters who have insured you under the contract. Each underwriter 
 is only liable for their own share of the risk and not for any other 
 share. You can ask us for the names of the underwriters and the share of 
 the risk each has taken on.
 
Provisos
 
Provided that:-
 
1. A motor vehicle insurance in the person insured's name is in force 
 at the time of any incident likely to give rise to a claim under this 
 Certificate and that the premium for such motor vehicle insurance as 
 demanded shall have been paid in full.
 
2. Legal costs and expenses payable are in no way affected by an 
 agreement, undertaking, promise made or given by the person insured to 
 the solicitor.
 
3. The insurance does not cover appeals unless the underwriters are 
 notified in writing by the person insured not later than six working 
 days before the time for making an appeal expires and the underwriters 
 consider that there are reasonable prospects of such an appeal 
 succeeding.
 
4. Unless specifically agreed to the contrary this insurance will be 
 subject to English Law.
 
5. Where indemnity is requested and granted to any person mentioned 
 in Clause 4 of the schedule of the insurance then the terms and 
 conditions and exclusions of this certificate apply equally to such 
 persons as they do to the person insured.
 
Exclusions.
 
1. The Underwriters shall not be liable in respect of:
 
 
(a) legal costs and expenses incurred prior to the Underwriters 
 acceptance of a claim.
 
(b) claims arising from any deliberate and criminal act or omission 
 of the person insured.
 
(c) legal costs and expenses, fines or other penalties which the 
 person insured is ordered to pay by a Court of Criminal Jurisdiction.
 
(d) incidents involving a motor vehicle owned or driven by the 
 person insured, where the person insured or the driver driving with 
 his authority express or implied, was not in possession of a valid 
 United Kingdom driving licence or the vehicle was not covered by a 
 valid test certificate or was not in a road worthy condition.
 
(e) the use of motor vehicles by or on behalf of the person insured 
 for racing, rallies, competitions or trials of any kind.
 
 
2. The underwriters shall be under no liability to pay for avoidable 
 correspondence nor for the compensation for absence from work, 
 travelling expenses or subsistence allowances of the person insured 
 (except to the extent that the person insured may be specifically 
 covered under the Sections of Cover) nor for the legal costs and 
 expenses incurred by the person insured beyond those for which the 
 underwriters have given their approval in accordance with the terms and 
 conditions of this Certificate.
 
3. The underwriters shall not be liable for any claim directly or 
 indirectly caused by or contributed to or by or arising from:
 
 
a.) ionizing radiations or contamination by radioactivity from an 
 irradiated nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from the combustion 
 of nuclear fuel.
 
b.) the radioactive toxic explosive or other hazardous properties of 
 any nuclear assembly or nuclear component thereof.
 
c). riot, civil commotion, war, invasions, acts of foreign enemies, 
 hostilities (whether war be declared or not) civil war, rebellion, 
 revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or 
 nationalization or requisition or destruction of or damage to property 
 by or under the order of any government.
 
d.) any incident or matter arising prior to the inception of this 
 insurance.
 
 
4. The underwriters shall be under no liability where the person 
 insured is insured by any other policy to the extent that the 
 underwriters are or would but for this certificate be, by the terms of 
 such other policy, liable to indemnify the person insured in respect of 
 the Subject Matter of insurance.
 
5. The underwriters shall not be liable for the legal costs and 
 expenses of pursuing an action arising from an incident that occurs in 
 territory (a) under the jurisdiction of any court other than the courts 
 in territory (a) save that the underwriters will be responsible for 
 reasonable costs incurred with prior approval of Principal (A) in 
 enforcing or attempting to enforce a judgment obtained from a court 
 within territory (a) against a defendant resident elsewhere.
 
6. Whilst in territory (b) the underwriters shall not be liable for 
 costs and expenses incurred if the motor vehicle is a commercial vehicle 
 over 35cwt or a vehicle with a seating capacity in excess of 12.
 
7. The underwriters shall not be liable for costs and expenses in 
 respect of accidents occurring in territory (b) when the period of use 
 in these countries exceeds 30 days in any one year
 
8. We will not pay for any equipment, integrated circuit, computer 
 chip, computer software and any other computer related equipment which 
 fails to recognise correctly the date change of the year 2000 or any 
 other date change.
 
Conditions
 
Compliance by the person insured with each and all of the terms in 
 this certificate shall be a condition of this insurance.
 
This insurance may be cancelled at any time at the request of 
 Principal (A) (B) or (C) in writing by sending 7 days notice by recorded 
 delivery to the Person Insured and in such event the person insured 
 shall be entitled to a return of a proportion of part of the premium 
 corresponding to the unexpired period of insurance
 
All notices and communications from the underwriters or their 
 representatives to the person insured or the person insured's 
 representatives shall be deemed to have been duly sent if sent by the 
 Principal (A) (B) or (C) or their authorized representatives or in 
 relation to any matter arising out of an insured incident to the address 
 of the solicitor. All notices and communications from the person insured 
 or the person insured's representative to the underwriters or their 
 representatives shall be deemed to have been duly given if given to the 
 Principal (A).
 
Claims Notification.
 
Where the person insured presents a claim under their insurance he 
 must submit to Principal (A) at the address shown in the schedule, or 
 any branch of Principal (B) a complete and truthful report of the facts 
 of the matter which is the subject of his claim indicating any potential 
 witnesses and any documentary or other evidence of which he is aware. 
 The person insured must ensure that Principal (A) is advised of the 
 claim within 180 days of the occurrence of the incident.
 
Prospects of Success.
 
Upon the presentation of a claim covered under the Certificate 
 Principal (A) or the underwriters shall accept the claim if it offers 
 reasonable prospects of successful recovery. If the underwriters refuse 
 such a claim they shall inform the person insured of the reasons for the 
 refusal. If the Principal (A) or the underwriters consider that the 
 prospects of success of a claim are no longer reasonable they may 
 discontinue indemnity by informing the person insured of their reasons.
 
Representation.
 
(a) The underwriter's have the right through the Principal (A) 
 adjusters or solicitors to take over and conduct in the name of the 
 person insured the pursuit or settlement of any claims.
 
(b) Should the underwriters through the Principal (A) adjusters or 
 solicitors consider that proceedings through the courts should be 
 commenced they shall nominate a solicitor to act for the person insured. 
 Alternatively, the person insured may notify the Principal (A) of the 
 full name and address of a solicitor whom he/she wishes to act for 
 him/her. The underwriters through the Principal (A) adjusters or 
 solicitors will instruct the solicitor nominated by the person insured 
 on their behalf unless there are exceptional circumstances where the 
 underwriters do not accept the solicitor nominated. Any dispute arising 
 from the person insured's choice of solicitor may be referred to 
 arbitration in accordance with Condition 9. In selecting their solicitor 
 the person insured shall have regard to the common law duty to minimize 
 the cost of any legal proceedings.
 
(c) Prior to the underwriter's acceptance of the person insured's 
 nomination of a solicitor or if the person insured fails to nominate a 
 solicitor, the underwriters shall be entitled but not bound to instruct 
 a solicitor on behalf of the person insured if they consider this 
 necessary to safeguard the person insured's immediate interests.
 
Claims Procedure.
 
(a) The underwriters will themselves or through Principal (A) or 
 claims adjuster with the prior consent of the person insured make their 
 own investigation into the case and may subject to the final approval of 
 the person insured (such prior consent or final approval not to be 
 unreasonably withheld) attempt to reach a settlement.
 
(b) Where the uninsured loss does not exceed the level for the time 
 being of the small claims court and is not in respect of a claim for 
 damages for personal injury the underwriters or their claims adjusters 
 may investigate the circumstances of the claim and attempt to obtain 
 settlement with prior consent of the person insured such prior consent 
 not to be unreasonably withheld. The underwriters shall not be liable to 
 provide representation on behalf of the person insured at any court 
 proceedings where the amount involved in respect of the uninsured loss 
 does not exceed the level for the time being of the Small Claims Court.
 
(c) Notwithstanding clause 7(b) above, underwriters reserve the right 
 to provide representation in the Small Claims Court if Principal (A) 
 considers it is appropriate in all the circumstances of the case for 
 there to be such representation.
 
(d) The underwriters shall have direct access to the solicitor at all 
 times and the Person Insured shall co-operate fully with the 
 Underwriters in all respects and shall keep the underwriters fully and 
 continually informed of all material developments in the legal 
 representation of proceedings. At the underwriter's request the Person 
 Insured shall instruct the solicitor to produce to the Underwriter's 
 immediately any documents, information or advice in his/her possession 
 and further shall give them such other instructions in relation to the 
 conduct of his/her claim as the underwriters may require.
 
(e) The underwriters written consent must be obtained prior to:-
 
 
(i) the instruction of counsel to appear before a court (or 
 tribunal) before which a solicitors has a right of audience.
 
 
 
(ii) the instruction of a Queen's Counsel.
 
 
 
(iii) the incurring of unusual experts fees or unusual 
 disbursements or
 
 
 
(iv) the making of an appeal
 
 
(f) Legal costs and expenses payable are to be in no way affected by 
 any agreement undertaking or promise made or given by the person insured 
 to the solicitor or by either of them to any witness expert or agent.
 
(g) The person insured must co-operate fully with the appointed 
 adjusters or solicitors.
 
(h) The solicitor or person insured shall inform the underwriters 
 immediately in writing of any offer or any payment into court made with 
 a view to settling the claim and:
 
 
(i) no agreement to settle on the basis of both sides paying their 
 own costs is to be made without the underwriters prior approval.
 
 
 
(ii) If any offer or payment into court is not accepted by the 
 person insured but the amount thereof is equal to or in excess of the 
 total damages eventually recovered by him/her the underwriters shall 
 have no liability in respect of any further legal costs and expenses 
 or opponents civil costs unless upon being notified of the offer of 
 payment into court the underwriters agree to the continuance of the 
 proceedings (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld) and the 
 underwriters shall have the right to require the person insured at the 
 underwriters request to instruct his solicitor to obtain an opinion of 
 counsel on the merits of the claim or defence thereto or on an offer 
 or payment into court made by an opponent or proposed by the person 
 insured or whether there are reasonable grounds for continuing the 
 proceedings prior to granting or refusing such agreement.
 
 
(i) At the underwriter's request the person insured will require the 
 solicitor to have the legal costs and expenses taxed, assessed or 
 audited by the relevant authority.
 
(j) If for any reason the solicitor refuses to continue to act for 
 the person insured or if the person insured withdraws his claim from the 
 solicitor, the underwriters liability will cease forthwith unless they 
 agree to the appointment of another solicitor to continue with the claim 
 pursuant to the procedure contained in Clause 6 thereof, but 
 underwriters shall have no liability to meet the additional legal costs 
 and expenses arising solely as a result of the appointment of a new 
 solicitor.
 
(k) If the person insured withdraws from a claim without the prior 
 agreement of the underwriters then the legal costs and expenses will 
 become the responsibility of the person insured and the underwriters 
 will be entitled to be reimbursed by the person insured for any costs 
 paid or incurred during the course of the claim including any legal 
 costs and expenses the underwriters consider it is obliged to pay on the 
 person insured withdrawing from the claim.
 
Recovery
 
The person insured claiming under the certificate shall take or have 
 taken on his/her behalf every available step to recover from his/her 
 opponents legal costs and expenses payable under the certificate and 
 such legal costs and expenses must be paid to the underwriters.
 
Arbitration
 
If any differences shall arise between the underwriters and the 
 person insured as to the presentation, acceptance, rejection, control or 
 discontinuance of any claim.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Products described on these pages apply to UK mainland 
 applicants only.
 
Copyright Taylor Price & Co. 1998-2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
|
 travel | 
 car |
 motorcycle |
 home |
 liability |
 breakdown |
 vacancies |
 | uninsured |
 partners |
 glass |
 glass policy |
 terms of trading |
 | legal 
 protection policy |
 legal protection 
 | Taylor Price 
 |
 
 
 
 
 
