
How to Protect your Home 3
How to Protect Your Home 3
Contents
Garages & Sheds 
Burglar Alarms 
Other Security Measures
Sheds and Outbuildings doors
The padlock plate or hasp
must be as strong and secure as the padlock. It is no good having
a large padlock if the hasp can easily be unscrewed or broken.
The same locks as garage doors can be used.
Burglar Alarms
Burglar Alarms give your home that extra sense of protection.
They can deter the professional thief as well as the opportunist.
The alarm should be tailored to your home and lifestyle.
The system must compile to BS 4737 and be installed by a NACOSS
approved company. There must also be a maintenance agreement with
an installer approved by NACOSS. NACOSS (National Approval Council
for Security Systems) is the UK Regulatory Body, responsible for
the approval of security systems.
Insurers will ask for details of the alarm system and maintenance
contract. You could be eligible for discounts on your premium.
There are cheaper alarms that you can buy and install yourself.
These are not as effective as professionally installed and maintained
alarms and can create problems if incorrectly set up. Wiring can
be difficult, so do not attempt this unless you have the appropriate
know-how. If it is a DIY alarm then it should meet BS 6707.
Detection 
Your alarm will be attached to a detection device which sets off
the alarm. They can be a variety of sizes and technologies. They
are all designed to be activated by some change of state when
an intruder enters or proceeds inside your home. e.g. movement
detectors or fixed detectors to doors, windows etc.
Signalling 
There are many types of signalling available. These vary according
to the alarm system and your needs. Approved alarm contractors
will be able to advise you which alarm suits you best.
The main types that are available are:
- Bells or Sirens - audible only, simply attached to outside
of your home
- Dial 999 - direct link to the police station
- Digital Communicator - message sent to a central station when
the alarm is activated
- Monitored direct line - a separate telephone line to alarm
company
- Paknet - uses a radio transmitter to signal the alarm company
- BT Redcare - uses existing telephone lines which are constantly
monitored by the central station
They all have different advantages and disadvantages, and come
at different prices. You should consider the one that suits you
most.
Remember - false alarms waste police time and irritate your neighbours.
This could result in people ignoring your alarm when it could
be genuine. If you have an alarm with police response they could
withdraw it after a certain number of false alarms.
So it's in your best interests to buy an effective system and
have it put in by a reputable installer. The maintenance contract
will ensure the alarm is kept in a good working condition.
Extra Security Measures
Bogus Traders 
Some burglars do not break and enter your home. They pretend to
be "Officials" or "Workmen" to get into your
home.
If in doubt always check their
credentials by either using a door viewer or security chain. Genuine
callers normally make appointments prior and carry identification
with their photographs on.
Door Viewers 
These are wide angled and allow you to see visitors before opening
the door.
 
Recommended viewers are:
- Chubb WS13, WS8, WS9 or 8V001
- Ingersoll DV1
- ERA 786/784
Security Chains 
Only put these on your door
when you answer the door. Don't keep it on at all times in case
of a fire and you need to get out quickly.
Recommended chains are:
- Chubb WS6
- Ingersoll DSC1/DSC2
- ERA 788/800
You can also buy door limiters that serve the same purpose.
Safes 
There are many different types of safes available. We have shown a few of the different types that you can buy. They
are all built to withstand various levels and types of forced
entry and fire. Insurance companies use a cash limit system for
rating the quality of the safe. This tells you the maximum amount
of cash and valuables you can put in. Better safes will have higher
ratings.
If you have one, get into the habit of using it. You may be required
to keep certain valuables in your safe and you will be advised
if this is necessary.
The Insurance Club Ltd, Registered in London No. 3016797
 
