
James Hampden Worldwide Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
 
Under the Association of British 
Insurers general Business Code of Practice, the person selling the 
insurance must draw your attention to important features of your 
Travel Insurance including:
 
 
 Certificate: you should read the 
certificate carefully as it provides full details of what is and is 
not covered and the conditions of the cover.
 
 
 Conditions: Exclusions 
and Warranties: conditions and exclusions will apply to individual 
sections while general exclusions, conditions and warranties will 
apply to the whole of your policy.
 
 
 Health: your Travel Insurance 
Cover contains restrictions regarding pre-existing medical problems 
concerning the health of the people travelling and of other people 
upon whose health the trip may depend. You are advised to read your 
Certificate carefully. If you have a pre-existing medical condition, 
you must disclose this information. To do this ring James Hampden 
01530 416369 who will advise of any special terms that will apply.
 
 
 Dangerous Sports or Pastimes: if you are going to take part in 
dangerous sports or pastimes where there is a risk of injury, check 
that this Travel Insurance covers you.
 
 
 Property Claims: these 
claims are paid on a 'new for old' basis, provided the articles are 
less than 2 years old and supplied with evidence of original 
purchase. For articles over 2 years old claims will be paid on the 
value of the goods at the time of loss.
 
 
 Cover Limits: most sections 
have limits on the amount the insurer will pay under that section. 
Some sections also include other specific limits, for example: for 
any one item or for valuables in total. You are advised to check the 
Certificate.
 
 
 Excess: under most Sections of this Insurance claims 
will be subject to an excess. This means that you will be responsible 
for paying the first part of the claim. The amount you have to pay is 
the excess.
 
 
 Reasonable Care: you need to take all reasonable care 
to protect yourself and your property, as you would as if you were 
not insured.
 
 
 Complaints: your Travel Insurance has a complaints 
procedure which tells you what steps to take if you wish to make a 
complaint.
 
 
 'Cooling Off' Period: If you have a justifiable reason 
for being dissatisfied with the cover provided by this insurance, you 
may return it to James Hampden Insurance Brokers Limited within 14 
days from the date of issue, who will refund your premium in full 
provided no claims have been made and you return the Certificate 
prior to your departure date.
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
