
 
Insurance for Musicians Affiliate Programme from Pavilion Musicguard
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Become 
 an Affiliate and Earn Money for Recommending Us!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
So 
 what exactly is an affiliate programme?
 Basically, it's a way of you earning money by recommending us
 in one of 3 ways:
 i) send e-mails to your friends and include your unique affiliate 
 link
 ii) post a banner on your website which includes your affiliate 
 link
 iii) put a text link on your website - link to our site using your 
 unique affiliate link.
 
What's 
 my unique affiliate link?
 If you sign up as an affiliate (it's quick and free), you get allocated 
 a number
 and this number, in combination with a special web address, is your 
 unique affiliate link.
 
So 
 how much money can I earn?
 Well - this depends on how much you recommend us...but we will pay 
 you £5 commission on each policy that is taken out 
 by anybody who uses your unique affiliate link. You are paid by 
 cheque every month if your commission total is over £25 - 
 otherwise, the amount of commission you have earnt will be carried 
 forward to the next month.
 
Remember, 
 Musicguard is the NO.1 specialist for musical instrument insurance 
 and we cover over £35 million of equipment. Our prices are 
 guaranteed the lowest for the very best level of cover................if 
 you're impressed - then think how many other people will be! The 
 more people you send through to our site with your link, the more 
 money you stand to make. Once someone has used your link, your cookie 
 will be stored by them and anytime they come back to us to take 
 out a policy, you will earn commission!
 
What 
 now ?
 To sign up 
 will take no more than a couple of minutes.....you can get your 
 unique affiliate link straight away and start recommending us.
 
Click 
 here NOW!
 
P.S 
 - For customers who do not have a website and want to recommend 
 us to their friends via e-mail, make sure you read the confirmation 
 e-mail (that's sent to you once you've signed up) carefully for 
 your unique affiliate link - or visit the members page for tips 
 and help.
 
Do 
 you have any questions about the affiliate programme? Ask away - 
 e-mail
 sally@pavilioninsurance.net
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "> 
 
 "> 
 Start 
 Your Own Affiliate Program with Pro-Track Click Here!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pavilion 
 Insurance Management Ltd. Copyright Notice
 
To 
 speak to our specialist Musicguard advisors, call 02476 851000 or e-mail 
 sales@musicguard.co.uk
 
 
 
 
 Musicguard 
 is operated by Pavilion Insurance Management Ltd. Other brands operated 
 by Pavilion include Photoguard 
 and Cycleguard. All Pavilion 
 Insurance Products are fully underwritten by Pinnacle Insurance plc 
 and are exclusive to Pavilion Insurance Management Ltd. Pinnacle Insurance 
 plc is a subsidiary of BNP Paribas, the 2nd largest bank in Europe.
 Pavilion Insurance - 15 Mercia Business Village - Coventry - CV4 8HX 
 - Tel: 02476 851085 - Fax: 02476 851080 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
