
FIRSTONLINE INSURANCE
 
ONLINE TRAVEL INSURANCE QUOTATION REQUEST
 
ANNUAL & SINGLE TRIP INSURANCE FROM £13
OUR ANNUAL COVER IS up to 45 days for any one trip, but with an unlimited number of trips in any one insurance year.
All trips must be for personal pleasure but may include business providing that these involve only non manual work.
We can only accept insurance from persons up to and including the age of 69. All persons to be covered by this policy must reside permanently at the policyholders' address.
We do not provide cover in respect of claims arising from any pre-existing medical condition - except where declared to us below and accepted by underwriters.
Typical benefits of the scheme are as follows
- Medical and other expenses:
- a) Journeys outside of the UK - £5,000,000
- b) Journeys within the UK - £10,000
- c) Surgery following repatriation - £5,000
- Personal Liability: - £2,000,000
- Personal Accident: - £25,000
- Legal Expenses: - £50,000
- Cancellation/Curtailment: - £5,000
- Personal Money: - £500*
- Personal Baggage: - £1500**
- Travel delay:
- a) Compensation - £250
- b) Cancellation - £5,000
- Missed Departure: - £1000
- Delayed Baggage: - £250
* Loss of cash, currency and banknotes is limited to £300
** A single article limit of £300 and a valuable limit of £300 apply
 
Password
You will use this to access your on-line proposal after we notify you that it is ready.
(One word, use letters; a-z and numbers; 0-9 only.) 
Title 
First Name(s) 
Surname 
Address 
Postcode 
E-mail 
Telephone No. 
 
Please select "Single Trip"
or "Annual Cover". 
	 
	
 Single Trip 
 Annual Cover 
 
 
Please indicate your choice of area to be covered. 
	 
	
 United Kingdom
(Great Britain, Northern Ireland, Channel Islands, Isle of Man) 
 The Continent of Europe
(Includes the Mediterranean Islands, Canary Islands, Madeira, Jordan and all countries bordering the Mediterranean except Libya and Albania.) 
 World-wide
(Excluding USA and Canada) 
 World-wide 
 
Intended date of Cover 
 
Please give details of all persons to be insured. 
Name 
Date of Birth: 
Medical Condition: 
 
Name 
Date of Birth: 
Medical Condition: 
 
Name 
Date of Birth: 
Medical Condition: 
 
Name 
Date of Birth: 
Medical Condition: 
 
Name 
Date of Birth: 
Medical Condition: 
 
 
How did you hear about 1st-on-line.com?
	Please select...
	Advertisement?
	Link from other web site?
	Letter?
	Recommendation?
	Search Engine. If so which one?
Which Search Engine? 
 
 
We send a monthly e-mail update of news and special offers to our customers.
Please tick if you do not wish to receive this email.
 
 
 
 
 
 
