
Travel
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our free travel 
 quotation system, available from the 
 downloads page will enable you to quote for holiday insurance including 
 business cover, golfing holidays, annual multi-trip and long stay. The 
 schemes and Underwriters vary depending upon their competitiveness in 
 the market.
 
Currently available 
 schemes
 
 
 Name 
 Description 
 
 
 CETA 
 Trip Travel 
 Value 
 for money scheme which provides excellent levels of cover and very 
 competitive. Maximum age limit is 75 years. 
 
 
 CETA 
 Trip travel Standard Cover 
 This 
 policy provides the same levels of cover as the full package policy 
 but excludes the money and baggage sections. 
 
 
 CETA 
 Trip travel Business cover 
 A 
 very competitive policy to which the Business Extension increases 
 the baggage sum insured to £3,000 and delayed baggage to £500. All 
 other covers are the same as the full package policy. 
 
 
 CETA 
 Trip Travel Golfing holiday 
 This 
 extension to our full package policy provides cover for golf equipment 
 of £1000 or £2000 - as requested - [including the ‘set’ limit of £1000] 
 plus if the golf clubs are delayed for more that 18 hours on the outward 
 journey a sum of £30 per day to hire golf clubs up to a maximum of 
 £150. 
 
 
 Annual 
 Multi-Trip Standard 
 This 
 policy is only available to proposers who currently hold any household 
 policy. Cover includes trips up to a maximum of 31 days, worldwide 
 territorial area and includes 17 days of winter sports cover. A reduced 
 premium is allowed for the spouse. Maximum age limit is 70 years. 
 
 
 Annual 
 Multi-Trip Family Cover 
 Cover 
 is the same as the standard policy for proposers who currently hold 
 any household policy. A reduced premium is allowed for a family of 
 2 adults [under the age of 70] and their dependent children under 
 the age of 18 years. 
 
 
 Long 
 Stay 
 This 
 policy covers long stay trips over 2 months with an each additional 
 month premium charged accordingly. The territorial limits are world-wide 
 excluding USA, Canada and the Caribbean [Area 1] or Worldwide [Area 
 2]. The maximum age limit for this policy is 45 years 
 
 
 
Require an urgent 
 schedule?
 If you require 
 an urgent schedule of cover then we can provide a priority service. Complete 
 the details as normal and forward to ourselves by fax or via the internet, 
 we will then prepare the schedule for you.
 
Payment
 We can accept 
 payment by credit card, cheque or direct debit on the annual multi-trip 
 policy where the premium exceeds £100.
 
 
- Credit Card : please 
 collect the clients credit card details (card number, name, expiry date 
 and issue number [if applicable]).
 
- Cheque : please 
 ensure that the cheque is made payable to CETA Limited.
 
- Direct Debit : 
 Please ensure that the mandate is fully completed, signed and dated 
 in the necessary areas and accompanied with the 20% deposit cheque made 
 payable to CETA Limited.
 
 
Medical Conditions
 It is a 
 policy condition that pre-existing health conditions are excluded from 
 cover but, however, the Insurers will consider applications. Please forward 
 the relevant proposal form together with a note of the medical condition, 
 what medication that is being taken together with a Doctors note stating 
 that they are fit to travel and not travelling against medical advice. 
 These applications will be referred to the underwriters for acceptance 
 / terms.
 
Non standard travel
 There are 
 a number of types of travel business that we are unable to provide on 
 the quotation system such as hazardous sports including winter sports 
 that include off piste skiing etc. Please contact 
 us and we will be happy to offer advice and deal with your enquiries.
 
 
 
 
 
