
Untitled Document
 
 
 
Complaints 
 Procedure
 
Our 
 aim is at all times to provide a first class standard of service. However, 
 there may be occasions when you feel that this objective has not been 
 achieved. Should 
 you have any query or complaint regarding your insurance please contact, 
 in the first instance, the Manager of your Hill House Hammond office. 
 
 
If you remain dissatisfied, 
 please write to:
 The Customer Relations Director
 Hill House Hammond Limited
 Head Office
 Lewins Mead
 BRISTOL
 BS1 2LL
 
Please always quote 
 your policy or claim number, where this is available, and the branch office 
 which arranged your insurance.
 
If after taking this 
 action you are still dissatisfied, you may approach a senior executive 
 of your insurer. Full details of the name and address are available from 
 your local branch of Hill House Hammond or from the Customer Relations 
 Director at the address mentioned above.
 
If you remain dissatisfied 
 and you are insured by a member of Lloyd's of London, you may write to:
 
Lloyd's Complaints 
 and Advisory Department
 Lloyd's of London
 1 Lime Street
 LONDON
 EC3M 7HA
 
Whether you are insured 
 by a member of Lloyd's of London or any other insurer, if you remain dissatisfied 
 you may write to : 
 
The Financial Ombudsman 
 Service
 South Quay Plaza
 183 Marsh Wall
 LONDON
 E14 9SR
 Telephone: 0845 080 1800
 Email: enquiries@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
 Website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk
 
 Any decision made by The Financial Ombudsman Service is only binding on 
 the insurers and you remain free to take action in court.
 
Law Applicable 
 to Contract
 These arrangements for the handling of complaints are entirely without 
 prejudice to your rights in English Law and you are free at any stage 
 to seek legal advice and take legal action. Unless agreed otherwise with 
 you, your insurance is governed by English Law.
 
If you are not resident 
 (or, in the case of a business, the registered office or principal place 
 of business is not situated) in England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland, 
 Channel Islands or the Isle of Man, the law which will apply is the law 
 of England and Wales.
 
 
 
