
	Scottish Friendly
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	home > ifa centre > products > growth & security bond 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
A safer way for your client to enjoy stockmarket growth 
Scottish Friendly's Growth & Security Bond could make your client's savings work much harder. This special investment gives their savings a higher growth potential than a building society because it offers the potential of stockmarket returns but with less risk than direct stockmarket investment. So it's a safer way to ensure savings can grow steadily and do more than keep pace with inflation.
Your client's money is invested in our highly successful With Profits Fund. The profits it makes in times of strong stockmarket growth are pooled to create a 'cushion' of reserves. These are distributed over time in the form of bonuses - even when stockmarkets are low. And once a bonus is added to the Bond, your client has the reassurance of knowing it cannot be taken away, unless a Market Value Adjustment (MVA) is made. Further details of the MVA can be found in the Key Features document online.
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Core features
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Bonus on investment
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Access to the fund
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Smooth, steady growth
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Commission and charges
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	How to apply
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
Core features 
back to top 
	
	
	 
	 
	Minimum lump sum investment £3,000 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Minimum top up of £500 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Investment value can not exceed £500,000 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Investments over £10,000 receive a 1% boost on the investment in the form of enhanced allocation 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Regular yearly bonuses, a loyalty bonus and a final bonus may be added 
	
	
	 
	
	
If your client has less than a £3000 lump sum to invest then why not consider our Bonus ISA&#63;
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Bonus on investment 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
The Growth & Security Bond is designed to grow steadily through the addition of bonuses, so that it builds into a really substantial sum. To achieve high returns over the long term, it invests in a wide variety of carefully selected investments which range from property to British companies. There are three types of bonuses which may be added to the Bond.
	
	
	 
	 
	Regular bonus - current bonus rate is 4.5&#37;* (effective 1/7/02) 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Potential Final Bonus - this may be added when a bond is cashed in, when withdrawals are made or in the event of death 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Loyalty Bonus - this 2.5&#37; guaranteed bonus is added on the 10th Anniversary of the investment 
	
	
	
	
	&#42;On investment, less initial charge.
	
	
	Bonuses are the share of the profits made in the Fund. As Scottish Friendly is a mutual company with no shareholders, all our profits go to our members. Over time, the regular bonuses steadily and daily increase the value of units in the Bond. The bonus rate is normally reviewed at the end of each calendar year although it may change at any time.
Remember that the return provided on a with profits bond depends on future investment returns, so future regular bonuses and the final bonus rate cannot be guaranteed.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Access to the fund 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Although the Growth and Security Bond should be regarded as a long term investment, your client has access to their money at any time.
	
	
	 
	Regular Withdrawal Scheme 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	You can arrange for your client to receive an income on a monthly, quarterly, half-yearly or annual basis 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	Minimum withdrawal is £50 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	Maximum withdrawal is 7.5% of the total amount paid into the Bond 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	At least £500 must remain invested in the Bond 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	Withdrawals can be paid by cheque or paid directly into a bank account of your clients' choice 
	
	
	
	Cashing in the Bond 
	 
	
	 
	 
	Your client can cash in their Bond at any time, by instructing us in writing. The value of the investment will be calculated using the value of the units allocated to the Bond, plus any final bonus, on the day we receive the request. 
	
	
In some circumstances, a Market Value Adjustment (MVA) may apply. Scottish Friendly guarantee that there will be no MVA on specific occasions: when the regular withdrawal scheme is used, when part or all of the Bond is cashed in on the 10th anniversary of investment or when death benefit is paid out.
Remember, if the rate of withdrawal exceeds the growth of the Bond, the investment will be depleted.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Smooth, steady growth 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
The graph shows the smoothing effect of a with profits investment compared to the fluctuations of a directly linked stockmarket investment over the ten years to 1 June 2002. Past performance is not a guide to future performance. With profits bonus rates are not guaranteed.
Source: 1 June 1992 to 1 June 2002, Standard & Poor's, Offer-Bid, UK Basic Rate, Based in UK Sterling, Calculation Indexed. &#42;Assuming MVA not applicable.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Commission & Charges 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	Commission - 5.25&#37; of initial investment 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Charges - 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	An initial charge of 5&#37; applies on investment in the Growth & Security Bond 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	Expenses for the administration of the With Profits Fund are allowed for before bonus rates are declared 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	If all or part of the investment is withdrawn, a Market Value Adjustment (MVA) may be deducted. Details of the MVA are explained in the Key Features. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How to apply 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
It's important that your client reads the key features of the policy they are applying for. These are available online.
Simply print off the application form and send the completed form to us at our Freepost address.
Scottish Friendly Assurance, FREEPOST, Glasgow, G2 4BR
If your client requires more information before applying, you can request a product pack. This includes further information on their chosen product and an application form.
You will need the Adobe Acrobat Reader to view the application form and key features. If you do not have it you can download it for free from the Adobe website.
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	contact us
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	information pack
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	 
	
	 
	key features
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	application form PDF
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Register for our Monthly newsletter - Email 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 Go 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
