
	
	
Royal & SunAlliance products and services for your employees and members 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 Legal Expenses Insurance as
 an 
 Employee Benefit
 
Frequently 
 Asked Questions 
 
 
 
Who 
 pays the premium; the company or the employee?
 
 
We 
 can cater for either: It's up to you! Some companies like to purchase 
 cover for all their employees and some prefer to give their employees 
 the option to purchase cover themselves.
 
Why 
 would I want my employees to have employment cover?
 
Strange 
 as it may seem, many employers would rather arrange for actions 
 brought by their staff to be handled by an independent, objective 
 insurer, as opposed to a trade union where subjective considerations 
 might come into play. This is also good for the employee as the 
 case will be assessed on its own merits and will not be clouded 
 by any consideration of the workforce as a whole. We 
 do not allow employees to make frivolous claims against their employers.
 
 Does the company have to get involved in complicated administration 
 procedures?
 
No. 
 All we will require is a statement at agreed intervals showing the 
 names of employees covered, or a contact to be telephoned to check 
 the employee's details if a claim is received.
 
My 
 company already has a legal expenses policy with you. Will this 
 be a problem?
 
All 
 our Legal Expenses claims are treated in the strictest confidence 
 and the separate handling of commercial and personal claims should 
 ensure that there is no conflict of interest.
 
My 
 company has both its Public and Employer's Liability policies with 
 Royal & SunAlliance. What happens if an employee claims for 
 an injury that occurred at work?
 
All 
 Legal Expenses claims are dealt with by FirstAssist, which is required 
 by law to operate independently from its parent company, Royal & 
 Sun Alliance. If an employee is injured at work (assuming they have 
 personal injury cover on their policy), they can still make a claim 
 and it will be treated as any other claim of this type, irrespective 
 of who is insuring the other party.
 
I 
 have a limited amount per employee in the budget to spend on legal 
 expenses insurance. Can you provide me with cover to fit my budget?
 
Yes. 
 We can create a bespoke policy to meet your company's needs both 
 in terms of cover and premium.
 
Would 
 legal expenses insurance really benefit the employees? After all, 
 can't they claim Legal Aid?
 
Not 
 if they earn more than £84 a week, have assets in excess of 
 £1000, or have more than £3000 equity in their home. 
 The simple fact is, following the curbing of the Legal Aid budget, 
 very few full-time employees can hope to receive state assistance 
 for most types of legal action.
 
If 
 the employee pays for the policy, how would the premium be collected?
 
Most 
 employers find it convenient to collect the premium from the employee 
 via the payroll system and then pass the total premium to us once 
 a month. However, we do try to be flexible and can use other methods 
 to suit the employer. 
 
Can 
 pensioners participate in the scheme?
 
Yes, 
 if you want them to. Provided the premium can be collected, retired 
 staff members can continue to enjoy the benefit of legal protection.
 
 Can part-time workers be covered?
 
Yes. 
 Again it is down to the employer whether the cover is available 
 to all employees or just certain categories of staff. 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
 Royal 
 & SunAlliance is one of the trading names of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc No. 93792
Registered in England and Wales at St Mark`s Court, Chart Way, Horsham, West Sussex, RH12 1XL
	 
	
