
Direct Choice online insurance with policies from a range of insurance partners
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome to the Direct Choice Insurance Website
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AXA Group are a major international insurer, who 
 offer good service to the private policyholder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Charringtons is a Lloyd's syndicate. 
 
 
 
 
 Chubb Insurance Company has been established 115 
 years and offers top quality insurance products. 
 
 
 
 
 Cornhill Insurance PLC is a subsidiary of 
 Allianz, one of Europe's largest and most influential groups. Cornhill 
 Insurance has a long established tradition as one of the largest 
 composite insurance companies in the UK. 
 
 
 
 
 Crowe Motor Policies at Lloyd's is an 
 established Lloyd's Syndicate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Car
 
 
 
 Motorcycle
 
 
 
 Van
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 Liability
 
 
 
 
 Breakdown
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity Red Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's is one 
 of the largest and best established motor syndicates in the country. 
 
 
 
 
 Folgate Insurance Company Ltd has been an active 
 Insurer in the UK market since 1974, and is now a subsidiary of the 
 German Wurttembergische Insurance Group which has a capital in excess of 
 £300 million, thus giving all policyholders the comfort of first class 
 financial security. 
 
 
 
 
 Fortis is an international group operating in 
 the fields of insurance, banking and investments, with over 200 member 
 companies and over 58,000 employees worldwide. 
 
 
 
 
 Gemini are backed by a major Lloyd's motor 
 syndicate and specialise in the lady driver. 
 
 
 
 Groupama Insurances is one of the largest 
 general insurers in the UK and a wholly owned subsidiary of Groupama, 
 one of Europe's most powerful financial groups. Groupama Insurances 
 currently insures over 1 million individuals and some of the country's 
 best known businesses. The UK group employs over 1200 staff and 
 generates gross premiums of £500 million. Their parent company is one of 
 the world's leading mutual property and casualty insurers with annual 
 revenues of £8 billion and assets under management of £25 billion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Car
 
 
 
 Motorcycle
 
 
 
 Van
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 Liability
 
 
 
 
 Breakdown
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Highway Insurance In January 1996, three long 
 established Lloyd's syndicates joined to form Highway Motor Policies at 
 Lloyd's thus creating one of the largest of all personal lines 
 syndicates. The name changed to Highway Insurance with the addition of 
 Highway Insurance Company Ltd. as co-insurers. 
 
 
 
 
 Legal and General Insurance Co. Ltd. are a well 
 known and established UK Insurer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Link Insurance are a long established Lloyd's syndicate. 
 
 
 
 
 MMA is a major European insurance group 
 established over 170 years ago. In 1999 MMA Group premium income was 
 over £2.5 billion and gross world-wide assets were £13.5 billion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIG is one of the UK's leading insurance 
 providers, with over 3 million policyholders and gross assets in excess 
 of 500 million. Established in 1894, NIG provides a wide range of 
 insurance products protecting motor cars, motorcycles, homes and 
 businesses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Car
 
 
 
 Motorcycle
 
 
 
 Van
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 Liability
 
 
 
 
 Breakdown
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Norwich Union Group have for 200 years offered 
 policyholders security quality and value. They are the largest motor 
 insurer in the United Kingdom. 
 
 
 
 
 Novitas Underwriting Agency plc are an 
 underwriting agency. 
 
 
 
 Provident Insurance were established in 1966 as 
 Halifax Insurance, and have become a leading insurance market for the 
 motorist. 
 
 
 
 
 Royal & Sun Alliance was formed from two long 
 established and reliable UK insurers and are a major insurance provider 
 for motor, household, and many other types of insurance. 
 
 
 
 
 Sabre Insurance Co. Ltd. is a member of the CGNU 
 PLC group of companies, one of the largest Insurance groups in the UK. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Service Motor Policies are a motor insurer at 
 Lloyd's. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shakespeare are an underwriting agency 
 
 
 
 UGM are an underwriting agency. 
 
 
 
 
 Zenith Insurance is a major Lloyd's syndicate. 
 
 
 
 
 Zurich Insurance plc is one of Europe's largest 
 with an excellent reputation for its products and customer service. It 
 is recognised as a market leader in Car and Home insurance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Car
 
 
 
 Motorcycle
 
 
 
 Van
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 
 
 Liability
 
 
 
 
 Breakdown
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Products described on these pages apply to UK mainland 
 applicants only.
 
Copyright Taylor Price & Co. 1998-2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
|
 travel | car |
 motorcycle |
 home |
 liability |
 breakdown |
 vacancies |
 van | uninsured 
 |
 |
 partners |
 glass |
 glass policy |
 terms of trading | legal 
 protection policy |
 |
 legal protection 
 | Taylor Price 
 | Insurance-at.com |
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
