
PoundGates Holdings, Insurance & Risk Management Solutions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tel. 
 +44 (0) 1473 216406
 Email info@poundgates.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vehicle 
 Management Services
 
 
 
PoundGates 
 Vehicle Management Services Limited is a unique company with vast 
 experience of motor vehicle transportation and related transit insurance 
 issues.
 
We provide a personal 
 and tailored service for a wide range of transit risk matters for 
 motor manufacturers and their carriers.
 
What We Offer
 Fully tailored outsourcing facilities to improve your transit
 programme by removing log jams, achieving cost savings and improving 
 the reliability of supply. 
 
We can provide 
 a service to include some or all of the following:
 Manage and administer 
 your transit insurance programme
 Handle individual claims 
 and recover damage repair costs
 Complete transit damage 
 surveys and reports in the UK and Europe
 Provide risk management 
 advice to reduce damage and loss levels
 
The Benefits 
 to You
 Insurance 
 premium savings achieved by retaining appropriate risks
 under a self-funding arrangement
 No 
 investment required on expensive software for data capture or reporting
 Provision 
 of experienced on-site surveyors when and where needed
 Recovery 
 specialists minimising the cost of any individual loss to you
 Greater 
 reliability that vehicles will arrive in perfect condition
 Strategic 
 partner to manage and audit third parties.
 
Risk Management
 Transit damage surveys and reports completed at locations throughout 
 UK and Europe based upon standards specified by our clients.
 
Computer programmes 
 designed specifically for client requirements to monitor and control 
 damage levels and costs.
 
Damage control 
 recommendations based upon the analysis of data captured, surveys 
 and audits.
 
Examples of information 
 recorded, analysed and reported to aid Risk Management include:
  Premium income against claims expenditure to assess value
  Levels of damage recorded at individual locations to identify 
 problem areas
  Persistent panel damage to identify repetitive handling problems
  Levels of claims by either value or volume leading to investigation 
 of persistent claimants.
 
 Claims Handling 
 and Cost Recovery
 Transit damage claims documentation submitted from destinations throughout 
 the world is collated and appraised to ensure the claims are legitimate 
 and properly costed. 
 
Approved settlement 
 may be passed direct to the claimant or as required by our principals.
 
Recovery of damage 
 costs is paramount and is pursued from the liable party to ensure 
 our principals' costs are kept to a minimum.
 
Our Commitment
 The skills and experience in factory to point-of-sale handling mark 
 PoundGates out as a leader in the field with major manufacturers choosing 
 to employ our services.
 
ISO9002 accreditation 
 supported by our drive to achieve continuous improvements in vehicle 
 handling guarantee an outstanding quality of service. 
 
Each contract 
 we engage is specific to individual client needs and is supported 
 by Service Agreements and regular liaison. 
 
IT development 
 is a cornerstone of our success. Not only will we tailor our software 
 to your immediate needs but also maintain our investment commitment 
 to deliver ever improving solutions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contacts
 
 
 
 
 Mike 
 Ray
 Director
 Send Email
 
 
 
 
 
 Simon 
 Connelly
 Development Manager
 Send Email
 
 
 
 
 
 Doug 
 Keeble
 Survey Manager
 Send Email
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Top of the page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
