Developed by ForFront Web Services
www.forfront.net
Copyright 2000
-->
Stoneways Insurance Services
	
	 
	
	
	STONEWAYS PROPOSAL FORM
	Insured at Lloyd's of London 
	
APPROVED SECURITY DEVICES:
Indespension Triplelock, Bradley Doublelock Plus, Bulldog heavy duty wheel clamp (Dreadnaught/Centaur/Titan), Bulldog DC auto clamp TNO approved, 
Bulldog minihitch lock (DM or SSK) TNO approved, Rimlock MK IV, Revtech Hublock, PGR Compact wheel clamp, Envopack Anchorman, Patriot Excel, Chock 
Clamp, Uniclamp, Tailguard, BB Uniclamp, Lionweld Wheelclamps, SAS Defender Wheelclamp, Keep-it Heavy Duty Wheelclamp, keep-it portable Wheelclamp, 
Keep-it Hitchlock, Avonride Coupling with lock, Datatag, AL-KO safety coupling locks, Milenco hitchpost/wheelclamp/hitchlock, Lockfast wheel lock, 
Sentry Post.
The following is a brief summary of some of the policy terms, a full wording can be supplied on request.
EXCLUSIONS
This Insurance does not cover:
1. Depreciation, wear and tear, moth or vermin, mildew, mechanical breakdown or mechanical breakage, damage to tyres by road punctures, cuts or bursts. 
2. Loss of use. 
3. The first part of any loss equivalent to 10% of the insured value of the trailer but subject to a minimum of £100.00 and a maximum of £200.00 any one loss. 
4. Theft of the trailer whilst left unattended unless secured by the use of an approved security device. 
5. Any loss or damage caused sustained or incurred whilst the trailer is let for hire or reward to other than the named Assured. 
Territorial Limits: Great Britain, Ireland (including Eire), Channel Islands and Isle of Man. 
WESTERN EUROPEAN TRAILER EXTENSION
Trailer cover may be extended to include Western Europe at a per week additional charge of 0.5% +5% tax for hire trailers & 1% +5% tax for annual cover. 
Please note the following warranties apply to Western Europe. 
Warranted that any theft is reported to local police within 48 hours of occurrence. Written confirmation of the report must be obtained from the police. Failure to provide this information to Underwriters will invalidate any theft claim. 
Warranted that any claim for accidental damage is supported by photographs. These pictures must include a shot of the chassis number. Failure to provide this information will invalidate any claim for accidental damage.
NOTICE TO THE PROPOSER
The parties are free to choose the law applicable to this Insurance Contract. Unless specifically agreed to the contrary this insurance shall be subject to English Law. 
Any enquiry or complaint should be addressed in the first instance to Stoneways.
If you are not satisfied with the way a complaint has been dealt with you may ask the Complaints and Advisory Department at Lloyd's to review your case without prejudice to your rights in law. 
The address is:- Complaint's and Advisory Department 
Lloyd's, One Lime Street, London EC3M 7HA
Telephone: 020 7327 1000
 
 
	
	I disagree 
