
 
Critical Illness Description
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 learn 
 more | benefits | get 
 a quote 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Critical Illness Features 
 
 What Is A Critical Illness Policy? 
 
 It is a protection policy which provides a lump sum (Sum 
 Assured) if you are diagnosed as having a Critical Illness. 
 
 Your Commitment 
 
 You can choose whether you wish to pay regular premiums 
 for the term of the policy or accept a review in the future. 
 
 Risk Factors 
 
 The benefits under this policy are guaranteed and do 
 not depend on investment performance. This policy 
 does not have a cash in value at any time. 
 
 What Might I Get Back At The End Of The Policy? 
 
 No amount will be payable to you at the end of the policy 
 term. 
 
 What Happens If I Stop My Premiums? 
 
 You can stop paying premiums at any time and should you 
 subsequently be diagnosed as suffering from a Critical Illness, no benefit 
 will be payable. 
 
 Can I Cash In The Policy Early? 
 
 This policy does not have a cash in value 
 at any time. 
 
 What Happens If I Die? 
 
 If you die before the end of the policy term the Sum 
 Assured will be payable. 
 
 What Options Are Available? 
 
 For an additional premium the following options 
 are available: 
 
 
- Conversion Option: Without providing additional 
 evidence of your health you may change the policy to, for example, a 
 Whole Life or an Endowment policy. 
 
- Renewal Option: Without providing additional evidence 
 of health the policy may be extended at the end of the policy term. 
 
 
- Terminal Illness Option: Provides a lump sum if 
 you are diagnosed as suffering from a Terminal Illness. 
 
 What About My Tax Situation? 
 
 
- Both the death and terminal illness benefits will 
 be free of income and capital gains tax. 
 
- Both the death and terminal illness benefits may 
 be subject to inheritance tax unless you put your policy in trust. 
 
 
 This information reflects AssureNet UK&#146;s current understanding of 
 taxation and Inland Revenue practice, which may change in the future. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
