
car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Choose...
Motor
Home
Bike
Travel
Health
 
 
 
 
 Insurance Products 
 
 
Motor 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Home 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Travel 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
Vehicle 
 
Business 
 
Taxi 
 
 
 
Motorbike 
 
Quick Quote 
 
 
 
Health 
 
Life Term 
 
Critical Illness 
 
 
 
Other Services 
 
Competition 
 
News 
 
Recommended Buys 
 
Links 
 
Insurance Fun 
 
About Us 
 
 
 
 
 
General Motor Insurance 
How do we reduce the cost? 
Firstly remember this, if the quote we give you is not the lowest you have found, please call us on 0870 6062805 (local rate) and we will talk it through to find a suitable arrangement.
Secondly, we cut the cost by reducing most of the administration fees that would apply for an offline quotation, but more importantly we access the best quote from over 450 policies provided by 14 of the UK's leading providers. 
 
Cost reduction tips 
 Did you know that over 50% of people with garages never
 put their vehicles in them? So if you live in a high risk or
 busy area, consider all the possibilities of leaving your
 vehicle in a garage overnight or at the very least increase
 the level of security on your vehicle. 
 
 If you drive your vehicle or use your vehicle to work,
 contemplate the alternatives of public transport or using a
 company vehicle for work purposes. A garaged vehicle during
 the day reduces your premium. 
 
 If your vehicle is garaged, regardless of where you live, your
 premiums can be significantly reduced. 
 
 When purchasing a vehicle, it is worthwhile assessing the cost
 of replacement parts and maintenance, as this will affect the
 cost of premiums. 
 
All things considered, there may still be little that can be done to reduce your costs and on no account should you withhold information or give false information as in the result of a claim you will find your insurance becomes invalid and you could be liable to huge costs. Listed below are further routes to cost reduction. 
 
 Do you have the correct level of cover for your vehicle?
If the trade value is not high then it may be worth going for Third Party Fire and Theft cover as opposed to Fully Comprehensive. To find out the trade value of your car visit a site such as www.carsource.co.uk. Remember all insurance companies pay out at around this price so weigh it up against the cost of your premium.
Following this theory you may believe that it could save you even more money by opting out of Third Party Fire and Theft and simply covering your vehicle for Third Party damage only (the minimum legal requirement under UK law). 
This is not always the case, it may be worth checking but always ask for a quote with fire and theft as well. The reason you may get a lower quote for Third Party, Fire and Theft than for Third Party is because only a limited number of insurance companies offer Third Party only. The best thing to do is see how much the prices vary between the different levels of cover before making up your mind on which is best for you. 
 
 What is the highest level of excess charge you can afford
 to pay?
If you opt to pay for the first £100 or £150 instead of the first £50 you can reduce the cost of your insurance. This indicates you are unlikely to make smaller claims and will only need assistance from your insurance company in the event of a major claim. 
 
 Can you restrict your cover to named Drivers?
If you insure your vehicle for anyone to drive the cost will be understandably higher. The only instance where this may not be the case is if a lot of your named drivers are young and inexperienced, in which case it may be better to insure for all drivers. 
 
 Do you really need a hire car if your vehicle goes in for
 repair?
If you could possibly make do with public transport or lifts from family and friends for a few days then opting for a policy that does not provide a hire car will reduce your quote. 
 
 Can you live without those additional products that
 insurance companies offer?
Think very carefully about if you really need them. Extra perks can mean higher policies. 
 
 Have you built up more than 4 years no claims bonus?
You should consider protecting it. 
 
 Is this your first car?
You may not have any No claims bonus, but check for special introductory offers. 
 
 Are you a company car driver? Are you buying your first car
 after years of company car driving?
If so please call and tell us (0870 6062805 local rate) we will take into consideration your history as a company car driver, in some cases reducing your insurance quote quite considerably. 
 
 Need a reminder about that policy renewal?
We will email you an up to date quote but more importantly call us if for any reason you are not happy with your quote. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exclusive Deals 
 
 
 
 
 
Join our successful Affiliate Program and benefit from a working revenue stream. 
 
 
NEW:
Commercial Vehicle
Commercial Business
Commercial Taxi
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Us 
Privacy Policy | Feedback | Copyright & Legal | Company Profile | Jobs@The Insurance Centre
Recomended Group Sites 
 car insurance uk, home insurance, travel insurance, bike insurance, cheapest insurance quotes @ www.theinsurancecentre.co.uk 
 used cars, car insurance, used car prices, car prices, the best cars and deals @ www.carsource.co.uk"
 used car prices, car prices and used car price guide, the best cars and deals @ www.carprices.co.uk 
 
 
 
return to top 
