
Direct Choice Insurance personal legal protection policy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome to the Direct Choice Insurance Website
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uninsured Loss Recoveries 
Limited
Personal Legal Protection Policy
The period of insurance is concurrent 
with the Insured Person's Householders Insurance as arranged by the Insured 
Person's Intermediary.
 
This document is a legally binding 
 contract of insurance between You (the person insured) and Us (Equity Red Star 
 Motor \Policies at Lloyd's). Equity Red Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's has 
 agreed to insure you under the terms, conditions and exceptions contained in 
 this document.
 
Signed for and on behalf of Equity Red 
 Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's
 
This insurance will only apply if
 
1 The Insured Incident happens within 
 the territorial limit and 
 2 the time of occurrence is within the Period of Insurance and 
 3 any legal proceedings will be under the jurisdiction of a court or as 
 authorised by Us within the Territorial Limit and 
 4 reasonable prospects always exist for the recovery of damages or other 
 remedy or for a successful defence
 
Meaning of words
 
1 We, Us, Our
 
Equity Red Star Motor Policies at 
 Lloyd's
 
2 Equity Red Star Motor Policies at 
 Lloyd's is made up of the Lloyd's Underwriters who have insured you under this 
 contract. Each Underwriter is only liable for their own share of the risk and 
 not for any other share. You can ask us for the names of the Underwriters and 
 the share of the risk each has taken on.
 
3 Scheme provider
 
Uninsured Loss Recoveries Limited, 
 Station House, Station Road, Knebworth, SG3 6HL, Herts, telephone 01438 814533
 
4 You, Your
 
The Person to whom the policy has been 
 issued
 
5 Insured
 
You and members of your family 
 permanently living with you provided that any person claiming under this 
 policy has your agreement to claim.
 
6 Appointed Lawyer
 
The Lawyer or other suitably qualified 
 person appointed under condition 2 to act for an Insured.
 
7 Legal Costs
 
A reasonable amount of all costs 
 reasonably incurred by the appointed Lawyer on a standard basis and the costs 
 incurred by opponents in civil cases where the Insured is made liable to pay 
 them or pay them with our agreement.
 
8 Territorial limits
 
United Kingdom, Northern Ireland, the 
 Isle of Man and the Channel Islands.
 
9 Period of Insurance
 
The period not exceeding 12 months for 
 which we have agreed to accept and you have paid the premium
 
10 Time of occurrence
 
a) In civil cases the date at which the 
 cause of action first occurred.
 
b) In criminal cases the time at which 
 the Insured commenced or was alleged to have commenced to violate the criminal 
 law in question.
 
Insured Incident
 
1 Personal Injury
 
Any event which causes the death of or 
 bodily injury to an Insured
 
2 Contract Disputes
 
Any contractual dispute arising out of 
 an agreement entered into or allegedly entered into for:- 
 the sale, purchase or hire of any goods
 
obtaining services
 
The Insured must have entered or 
 allegedly entered into the agreement during the Period of Insurance.
 
The amount in dispute must be over £100.
 
3 Prosecution Defence
 
Anything done or not done (or alleged to 
 have been done or not done) by the Insured in the Insured's normal paid 
 employment which leads to:
 
The Insured being prosecuted in a 
 criminal court or civil action being taken against the Insured under the Race 
 Relations Act 1976 or the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 or
 
An Improvement Notice or Prohibition 
 Notice being served on the Insured under the Health and Safety at Work etc. 
 Act 1974 or the Food Safety Act 1990 or an Enforcement Deregistration or 
 Transfer Prohibition Notice under the Data Protection Act 1984 or
 
The serving of an Order of Enforcement 
 under the Fair Employment (Northern Ireland) Act 1989 or
 
Civil action being taken against the 
 Insured for compensation under Section 22 and/or 23 of the Data Protection Act 
 1984.
 
4 Employment
 
The cost of representation in respect of 
 an application to an Industrial Tribunal for unfair dismissal as defined by 
 the Employment Rights Act 1996 or the equivalent provisions in Northern 
 Ireland arising from the Insured's normal salaried or waged employment 
 provided that the Insured has sought and followed legal advice from the scheme 
 provider.
 
5 Tax disputes
 
An investigation by the Inland Revenue 
 into the Insured's personal tax affairs arising out of the Insured's normal 
 salaried or waged employment.
 
What is covered
 
Following an Insured Incident, We/Scheme 
 Provider will negotiate a claim to:
 
1 Pursue the legal rights of an Insured 
 or
 
2 Defend an Insured against civil or 
 criminal actions.
 
3 Appeal or defend an appeal against the 
 impositions of the terms of a notice specified under Insured Incident (3) 
 Prosecution Defence
 
4 Appeal or defend an appeal against 
 judgement, conviction or sentence of the court or tribunal and if a lawyer is 
 appointed We will pay the Legal Costs incurred.
 
The most we will pay in Legal Costs 
 including Legal Costs incurred in claims related by time or by cause is 
 £25,000.
 
What is not covered
 
We will not give cover for claims 
 arising from or relating to:
 
1 Claims reported to Us or Scheme 
 Provider more than 180 days from the Insured Incident
 
2 Legal Costs, including any costs of 
 appeals, incurred before We agree to pay them
 
3 Any sickness, disease or naturally 
 occurring condition or degenerative process
 
4 Contracts regarding the Insured's 
 trade, business, profession other than a claim relating to an employment 
 dispute
 
5 Any matters concerning the advice, 
 design, specification, construction, conversion or extension on any land or of 
 any buildings other than the normal maintenance or normal repair of Your 
 principle home.
 
6 A lease, tenancy or licence to occupy.
 
7 Dishonesty or violence by the Insured.
 
8 Ownership of use other than as a 
 passenger of a motor vehicle or a contract for sale, purchase, hire, 
 insurance, adaptation, repair, service or test of any motor vehicle or of its 
 parts or accessories.
 
9 Fines or other penalty or damages 
 which the Insured is ordered to pay by the relevant court
 
10 A prosecution deliberately or 
 intentionally solicited by the Insured
 
11 A contract of Insurance in so far as 
 the dispute is in respect of the sum of money or other compensation payable 
 under such a contract
 
12 Any claim caused by or contributed to 
 by or arising from ionising radiations or contamination by radioactivity from 
 an irradiated nuclear fuel or the toxic, explosive or other hazardous 
 properties of any nuclear component of it.
 
13 Any consequence of war, invasion, act 
 of foreign enemy, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, 
 rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power.
 
14 Loss, destruction or damage caused by 
 pressure waves made by an aircraft and other aerial devices travelling at 
 sonic or supersonic speeds.
 
15 Any dispute with Us not dealt with 
 under condition 7.
 
16 Where the Insured: Takes legal action 
 without Our agreement or the Appointed Lawyers agreement or causes delay or 
 fails to give reasonable evidence to Us/Scheme Provider or the Appointed 
 Lawyers.
 
17 Parking or obstruction offences
 
18 Any claim under insured incident 4 
 Employment where the Insured is or has been a director, partner or sole owner 
 of the employer involved in the dispute.
 
19 Any claim in respect of employment 
 that occurs within 90 days of this policy coming into force.
 
Conditions
 
1 The Insured must:
 
a) Keep to the terms and conditions of 
 this policy.
 
b) Take reasonable steps to minimise any 
 amount We have to pay and attempt to prevent any incident which may cause a 
 claim.
 
c) Send every notice or communication he 
 or she has to give Us or Scheme Provider in writing.
 
d) Give us or Scheme Provider details in 
 writing of any claim and provide us with any information needed by Us or 
 Scheme Provider.
 
2 a) We can take over and conduct in the 
 name of the Insured any claim or proceedings at any time before proceedings 
 are issued for which a lawyer or other suitably qualified person is required. 
 We or Scheme Provider can negotiate any claim on behalf of the Insured.
 
b) If We or Scheme Provider think that 
 legal proceedings should be issued for which a lawyer or suitably qualified 
 person is required or if there is a conflict of interest, the Insured may 
 choose to nominate an Appointed Lawyer by immediately providing Us or Scheme 
 Provider with the name and address of the nominated Appointed Lawyer in 
 writing. We or Scheme Provider may refuse this nomination in exceptional 
 circumstances. If there is a dispute over the choice of Appointed Lawyer, this 
 can be referred to arbitration under Condition 7.
 
c) before the Insured exercises his/her 
 choice of lawyer ((b) above) We or Scheme Provider may instruct an Appointed 
 Lawyer.
 
d) The Appointed Lawyer will be 
 appointed by Us or the Scheme Provider in the name of and on behalf of the 
 Insured.
 
e) We and the Scheme Provider will have 
 direct access to the Appointed Lawyer and the Insured must co-operate fully 
 with Us/Scheme Provider and the Appointed Lawyer in all respects and keep 
 Us/Scheme Provider fully informed of all recent developments in the claim.
 
The Insured must give any instructions 
 to the Appointed Lawyer that We or Scheme Provider require.
 
3 a) The Insured must tell Us or Scheme 
 Provider of any offer made to settle the claim.
 
b) No negotiations or agreement to 
 settle the claim must be made without Our or Scheme Providers approval.
 
c) If the insured does not accept an 
 offer to settle the claim no further Legal Costs will be paid by Us unless We 
 agree.
 
d) We reserve the right to reimburse the 
 Insured for the damages sought in place of pursuing or defending legal 
 proceedings.
 
4 a) If We or Scheme Provider ask the 
 Insured must instruct the Appointed Lawyer to have legal costs taxed, assessed 
 or audited.
 
b) The Insured must take every step to 
 recover Legal Costs from opponents that We have to pay and these must be paid 
 to Us.
 
5 If the Appointed Lawyer refuses to 
 continue acting for the Insured or the Insured withdraws the claim from the 
 Appointed Lawyer, Our cover will cease immediately, unless We or Scheme 
 Provider agree to instruct another Appointed Lawyer.
 
6 If the Insured withdraws from a case 
 without Our or Scheme Provider's agreement, no Legal Costs and Expenses will 
 be covered by the Policy.
 
7 If We or Scheme Provider and the 
 Insured disagree about the choice of the Appointed Lawyer, the acceptance, 
 rejection, presentation or ending of a claim, a lawyer (chosen jointly by Us 
 and the Insured) will decide the matter, as long as We both ask for this in 
 writing.
 
If there is no agreement between Us and 
 the Insured, We will ask the President of a relevant Law Society to nominate 
 the lawyer. All costs of resolving the difference must be paid by the party 
 who loses.
 
8 We may cancel this policy at any time 
 by telling You 7 days beforehand.
 
9 We will not pay any claim covered 
 under any other policy, or which would have been covered if this policy did 
 not exist.
 
Legal Advice Help Line
 
These services are provided 24 hours a 
 day 7 days a week and provide legal advice over the telephone in respect of 
 personal legal problems that you may have including: employment problems, 
 consumer disputes, divorce, separation, maintenance and custody, disputes with 
 neighbours, faulty workmanship, insurance disputes, landlord and tenancy 
 problems, state benefit and wills. We cannot accept responsibility for a 
 breakdown in this service which is beyond our control. Details for contacting 
 this service will be provided on taking out this insurance.
 
Problems
 
We or Scheme Provider aim to provide a 
 quality service at all times. If however You feel that We or Scheme Provider 
 have not provided a quality service, please contact the Managing Director, 
 Uninsured Loss Recoveries Limited, Station House, Station Road, Knebworth, SG3 
 6HL Herts. If you are unhappy with the way things are dealt with you may write 
 to the Chief Executive, Equity Red Star Motor Policies at Lloyd's, Library 
 House, New Road, Brentwood, Essex CM14 4GD. If You are still unhappy, You can 
 contact The Manager, Complaints & Advisory Department, Lloyd's of London 1 
 Lime Street, London EC3M 7HA, telephone number 0171 623 7100.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Products described on these pages apply to UK mainland 
 applicants only.
 
Copyright Taylor Price & Co. 1998-2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
|
 travel | 
 car |
 motorcycle |
 home |
 liability |
 breakdown |
 vacancies |
 | uninsured |
 partners |
 glass |
 glass policy |
 terms of trading |
 | legal 
 protection policy |
 legal protection 
 | Taylor Price 
 |
 
 
 
 
 
