
 
POIS Assurance - Privacy Statement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 Privacy 
 Statement 
 
 About Us
 
 
 Products & Services
 
 Travel Insurance 
 
 Savings Plans
 
 Children's Plan
 
 Life Assurance 
 
 Mortgages 
 
 Investment
 
 
 Useful Information
 
 Sales Support
 
 Request a Brochure
 
 
 
 
 
 
FREEPHONE
 0800 622417
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important information &#150; 
 please read carefully
 
The POIS Assurance promise 
 
 
At POIS Assurance we understand 
 that confidentiality is important to Internet users, and care about the privacy 
 and security of every visitor to this site. 
 
We will only collect details 
 that you have provided to us voluntarily.
 
Whilst we occasionally use 
 a third party for administration purposes, your records will not be used for 
 marketing products or services other than those available through POIS Assurance 
 and associated companies. 
 
The personal information you 
 have provided will be held securely for the purposes of internal research 
 and to keep you informed of products and services available from POIS Assurance 
 and associated companies. This may be by mail, email or telephone, but you 
 will always be given the opportunity to decline receiving such information.
 
You may request at any time 
 in writing that we stop using information about you for the purpose of informing 
 you about our products and services.
 
If you have submitted personal 
 information to POIS Assurance and would like that information deleted from 
 our records, please contact us at:
 POIS Assurance, Cover House, Hazelwick Avenue, Three Bridges, Crawley West 
 Sussex, RH10 1PZ, telephone 01293 565600, e-mail sales@pois.co.uk
 
We will endeavour to keep 
 the information held about you up-to-date and accurate. However, if your details 
 change at any time please inform us by contacting Customer Services on 0800 
 622 417 or by writing to the address above.
 
POIS Assurance is committed 
 to providing you with the highest standards of conduct with regard to your 
 personal data. If you are ever concerned about a specific use that we are 
 making of your data, you should contact us and we will be more than happy 
 to discuss your concerns. 
 
Information on children
 
We will only use information 
 about a child if the parent or legal guardian has provided that information. 
 We will not contact a child directly, by post, telephone or email, until they 
 are of the age when legally it becomes their product.
 
UK Residents Only
 
The information on this website 
 and the POIS Member Services travel website (www.poistravel.co.uk) 
 is only intended for people resident and/or ordinarily resident within the 
 United Kingdom. The information should not be regarded as an invitation to 
 sell savings, investment or protection products in any jurisdiction other 
 than the United Kingdom.
 
Taxation
 
The information on this website 
 is based upon the Society&#146;s understanding of current tax legislation, 
 and is based on the individual tax position of the investor. Any changes in 
 legislation and tax practice could affect the benefits payable under the policy.
 
Further Information
 
These pages should not be viewed as offering 
 financial advice. The content of these pages is intended to give you an introduction 
 into the range of products and services that POIS Assurance and POIS Member 
 Services provide. 
 
For further details of these products and services you can request 
 the relevant brochure and Key Features document by contacting Customer Services 
 on 0800 622 417 or asking your POIS representative for details.
 
 
 
 
