
	Scottish Friendly
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	home > ifa centre > products > scottish investment bond 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
What we provide - Scottish Investment Bond
Scottish Friendly's Scottish Investment Bond offers an easy route to stockmarket investment providing professional investment management, access to your investment and a choice of funds.
It is a capital investment bond which uses our professional investment expertise to pool your client's money with the investments of a great number of people. This means the investment is spread across a wide range of stocks and shares, cash deposits and fixed interest securities.
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Core features
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Access to the fund
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Investment fund options
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Strong past performance
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Commission and charges
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	How to apply
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
Core features 
back to top 
	
	
	 
	 
	Minimum lump sum investment £3,000 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Minimum top up of £500 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Investments over £10,000 receive a 1&#37; boost on the investment in the form of enhanced allocation (excludes investments in the Cash Fund) 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Withdrawals can be made from the fund 
	
	
	 
	
	
If the risk of the stockmarket does not appeal to your client then why not check out our Growth and Security Bond or Bonus ISA&#63;
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Access to the fund 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
The Scottish Investment Bond has been designed for medium (i.e at least 5 years) to long term investment and money can be withdrawn whenever needed. It should be remembered that withdrawals will deplete the original capital.
	
	
	 
	 
	Your client can withdraw any amount above £50 provided £500 remains in the Bond 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Regular withdrawals can be made in fixed amounts of not less than £50. This may be paid automatically into your client's bank or building society account. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Investment funds options 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Scottish Friendly offer five Investment funds designed and managed by our Investment team to help make the most of your client's fund varying from low to high risk investments.
You should remember that the value of investments in the investment-linked funds depends directly on the value of underlying assets and can, therefore, go down as well as up.
As a result there is no guarantee that the initial investment will be returned.
Managed Fund
Managed Funds are the most popular investment linked funds. The money will go into a broadly based fund investing as appropriate in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest stocks, index linked securities and cash deposits. Our managers - after fully considering the prospects for each market - decide on the mix of investment that is most likely to balance good returns with security. They then regularly review the mix of investments to maximise efficiency while attempting to minimise the risk involved through a wide portfolio spread.
UK Equity Fund
This specialist Fund is designed to achieve long term capital growth from a carefully selected portfolio of UK equities. It will also hold cash deposits from time to time.
This Fund offers the best of both worlds - providing your client with investments in a spread of UK ordinary shares and/or convertible stocks, without the expense and bother of buying and selling shares.
Scottish Investment Trusts Fund
This is a specialist fund which invests with the top funds managed by Scottish investment trusts. Our job is to select a number of the best investment trusts and ensure these trusts perform to maximise growth of the fund and the investment. It will also hold companies deposits from time to time.
Fixed Interest Fund
This Fund is invested in British Government securities and/or other UK fixed interest stocks. It will also hold cash deposits from time to time. The Fund aim is to achieve secure medium term growth through careful management of a portfolio of fixed interest stocks.
Cash Fund
Through the Cash Fund, investments aim for maximum interest with guaranteed capital security. This is achieved through investments in short term bank deposits and/or similar cash investments.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Strong past performance 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	You can choose to invest your money in any of 5 unit linked funds. Below are details of each fund's performance.
	
	
	 
	 
	Our Managed Fund was 5th in its sector out of 129 funds in the period since launch to 1 June 2002. This top performing fund was awarded 1st place in the Standard & Poor's Five Year UK Insurance Funds Balanced Managed Sector out of 57 funds in the Investment Funds Performance Awards 2001.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	This table shows the value of £
3,000 invested in the Scottish Investment Bond funds since launch on 1 March 1995 to 1 June 2002.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance. The value of units and the income from them can go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you originally invested.
* Source: Standard & Poor's. Offer to bid, net income re-invested. Based on current tax legislation which is subject to statutory charge.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Commission & Charges 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	Commission - 5.25% of initial investment 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Charges - 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	An initial charge of 5&#37; applies on investment in the Scottish Investment Bond 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	An annual charge of 1&#37; is taken into account in the calculation of daily fund prices. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How to apply 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
It's important that your client reads the key features of the policy they are applying for.
Simply print off the application and send the completed form to us at our Freepost address.
Scottish Friendly Assurance, Freepost, Glasgow G2 4BR
If your client requires more information before applying, you can request a product pack via our online literature request service. This includes further information on their chosen product and an application form.
You will need the Adobe Acrobat Reader to view the application form and key features. If you do not have it you can download it for free from the Adobe website.
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	contact us
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	information pack
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	key features
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	application form PDF
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Register for our Monthly newsletter - Email 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 Go 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
