
CETA Membership Application Form
 
 
 Membership Application Form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CETA Limited
 Astley House, Cromwell Park
 Chipping Norton, Oxon
 OX7 5SR
 UK 
 
 
 
Please ensure you read 
 the following important notes before you send the registration form.
To register as a CETA member 
 there are certain rules that everyone must follow to make the system work and 
 also to protect the good name that CETA members have in the market place. If 
 any member is found to not be following the rules set out, they will be unable 
 to place any business with CETA in the future.
 
- You must read and follow 
 the ABI on selling general insurance. 
 
- Your client must be given 
 a copy of the quotation and summary of cover quote breakdown. 
 
- Your client must be told 
 to read through the proposal form and to ask them that they fully understand 
 what is being covered. 
 
- If your client is paying 
 by payment plan, you must leave the client with their copy. 
 
- All monies are payable 
 to CETA for all products sold through the CETA membership. 
 
- All cheques, postal orders 
 and money orders must be made payable to CETA Ltd. 
 
- Payments must accompany 
 proposal forms sent to CETA. 
 
- You cannot issue, bind 
 or confirm cover on behalf of CETA. 
 
- You must send completed 
 documents to CETA at the earliest time possible. 
 
- If the policy is cancelled 
 for whatever reason, you are responsible to refund the proportionate amount 
 of the commission received. 
 
- Your membership of CETA 
 is not assignable, unless authorised by CETA. 
 
- CETA undertakes not to 
 use any information acquired in the course of this agreement to solicit your 
 clients directly for any business. 
 
- CETA undertakes to pay 
 all commissions on time and to notify you of any changes to the commission 
 structure at the earliest possible time.
 
 
 
 
 Name 
 
 
 
 Client 
 Name 
 
 
 
 
 
 Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 Post 
 Code 
 
 
 
 Telephone 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fax 
 
 
 
 Email 
 address 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Where 
 did you hear about CETA?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data protection Act
 You should 
 be aware of your obligations under the Data Protection Act. CETA strongly 
 recommends that all its members register with the Data Protection Registrar:-
Office of the Data Protection 
 Registrar, PO Box 66, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF
 
