
terms-and-conditions
 
 
 
Legal Terms and Conditions
 
Your Information 
 
 
The information that you have supplied or 
 will supply in connection with quotations obtained and policies effected 
 through this website forms the basis of your application for insurance. 
 You must check and agree that this information is correct. In the event 
 of a claim or upon request, you must be able to substantiate all of the 
 details that you have provided. In particular, you may be asked for sight of 
 your Driving Licence, proof of immobiliser fitment if applicable, and proof 
 of any No Claims Discount entitlement.
 
IMPORTANT: Amendments 
 made after using the browser Back or Forward buttons on your top toolbar 
 were not recorded unless you next clicked the Confirm or Next buttons etc on 
 the site itself and are thus invalid. Your valid input on which the cover 
 was based will be shown in the Statement of Insurance which will be posted 
 to you.
 
 Specifically, you must have answered Yes to all of the Statements on the 
 Disclaimers page at the start of the Quotes process and clicked Confirm.
 
It is most important that the 
 information you have given is accurate. You are advised to revisit and 
 print off or save the pages that you have completed in order to obtain your 
 quotation, and to keep these with your Insurance documents. If any 
 information is incorrect or missing, Taylor Price Direct Choice must be 
 notified at once. An acknowledgement of the amended information will then be 
 issued, together with any changes in the insurance terms and/or premium. 
 Failure to notify us of any errors, omissions or amendments could result in 
 your insurance being invalid. The information shown must be correct to 
 the best of your knowledge and belief, and you are reminded of your 
 obligation to disclose all material facts. Material facts are those 
 which are likely to influence an Insurer in his acceptance or otherwise of 
 your risk. If you are in any doubt as to whether or not a fact is 
 material you should disclose it. You should keep a record, including 
 copies of letters and electronic mail, of all correspondence supplied to us 
 for the purpose of entering into this contract.
 
Insurers pass information to the Claims 
 and Underwriting Exchange Register, run by Insurance Database Services 
 Ltd (IDS Ltd) and the Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud and Theft Register, 
 run by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). The aim is to help us to 
 check information provided and also to prevent fraudulent claims. When we 
 deal with your request for insurance, we may search these registers. 
 Under the conditions of your policy, you must tell us about any incident 
 (such as accident or theft) which may or may not give rise to a claim. 
 When you tell us about an incident, we will pass information relating to it 
 to the registers. Your insurance cover details will be added to the 
 Motor Insurance Database, run by the Motor Insurers' Information Centre 
 (MIIC). This has been set up to help identify uninsured drivers, and may be 
 searched by the Police to confirm who is insured to drive. If there is an 
 accident, the Database may be used by Insurers, MIIC and the Motor Insurers' 
 Bureau to identify relevant policy information. You can ask for more 
 information about this. You should show this notice to anyone insured to 
 drive the vehicle covered under the policy.
 
To provide enhanced customer service and 
 for training purposes, all telephone calls to us are recorded, and documents 
 are filed electronically. Please note that a specimen copy of your policy 
 is available on request.
 
Data Protection
 
Your information (including information 
 that we already hold and may receive now and in the future as well as 
 information about lapsed policies) may be held on a group database operated 
 by your Insurer and may be shared with other companies associated with your 
 Insurer. This will allow your Insurer to reflect all the connections that 
 you have with the Insurer’s group. They may disclose your information to 
 agents and service providers appointed by them (such as loss adjusters, 
 approved contractors, market research and quality assurance companies). Your 
 information will be used for general insurance administration purposes. It 
 may also be used for offering renewal, research and statistical purposes and 
 for crime prevention. Your Insurer may also transfer your information to any 
 country including countries outside the European Economic Area for any of 
 these purposes and for system administration.
 
The Data Protection Act 1998 defines 
 sensitive data as information about your racial or ethnic origin, political 
 opinions, religious beliefs or beliefs of a similar nature, trade union 
 membership, physical or mental health condition, sexual life, criminal 
 record, pending court proceedings or sentence or any alleged offence. The 
 information referred to above may include sensitive data.
 
With limited exceptions, you have the 
 right to access and if necessary correct the information that your Insurer 
 holds about you.
 
Your Declaration 
 
Please note that clicking the "I AGREE” 
 button on our site represents your POSITIVE ASSURANCE that you have no 
 amendments or corrections to make to the details that you have given us for 
 the purpose of obtaining the insurance policy issued based upon those 
 details. The following is the text of the declaration that you have made:-
 
I declare to the best of my knowledge and 
 belief that all the information provided by me for the purpose of obtaining 
 this quotation is true and complete. I understand that it is my duty to 
 disclose all facts that are material to and will influence the acceptance 
 and assessment of the proposal and that I must notify immediately any 
 changes to the information provided herein. I understand that failure to do 
 so means that the policy may not operate to protect me. I further understand 
 that at each renewal of my policy it is my duty to disclose any change to 
 the information provided by me and any other facts which are material to and 
 will influence the acceptance and assessment of the Insurer’s renewal 
 invitation. I understand that you will pass the information provided by me 
 and about any incident I may give details of to IDS Ltd and the ABI so that 
 they can make it available to other Insurers. I also understand that, in 
 response to any searches you may make in connection with this application or 
 any incident I have given details of, IDS Ltd. and the ABI may pass you 
 information it has received from other Insurers about other incidents 
 involving anyone insured to drive the vehicle covered under this policy.
 
 Terms of Trading
 
Your Duty of Disclosure
 
We cannot stress too strongly the 
 importance of full disclosure when proposing for, or renewing, any insurance 
 policy. Even an innocent omission of a single speeding offence a few years 
 ago could result in Insurers refusing to pay a claim if they would not have 
 accepted the risk in full knowledge.
 
Law to be applied
 
The parties are free to choose the law 
 applicable to a contract of insurance. Unless agreed specifically to the 
 contrary all contracts arranged through our agency are subject to the Law of 
 England and Wales.
 
Internet and Confidentiality
 
If you have provided credit/debit card 
 payment details for verification by us, then you should be aware that we 
 have taken steps to protect your confidential payment information from 
 disclosure to third parties. However, please note that despite our best 
 endeavours transactions over the internet may be subject to interruption, 
 transmission blackout, delayed transmission due to internet traffic or 
 incorrect data transmission due to the nature of the internet and matters 
 outside our control.
 
Modifications
 
If the car has been modified, your 
 quotation is not valid and you should contact us immediately 
 on 01638 672972.
 
Territory Statement
 
Please note that Taylor Price Direct 
 Choice is only able to arrange motor insurance on this website for 
 individuals resident in the United Kingdom (excluding Northern Ireland), 
 continuously for the past 12 months.
 
Road Traffic Act
 
It is an offence under the Road Traffic 
 Act to make any false statement or withhold any material information for the 
 purpose of obtaining a certificate of insurance.
 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974
 
Please note that you are not required to 
 disclose convictions regarded as "Spent” Under the Rehabilitation of 
 Offenders Act 1974.
 
Complaints Procedure 
 
Taylor Price Direct Choice is an 
 independent general insurance broker as defined by the General Insurance 
 Standards Council. If on any occasion the level of service falls below the 
 standard you expect you should contact the Customer Services Controller at
 Taylor Price Direct Choice.
 
If you are not satisfied that your 
 complaint has been handled satisfactorily, you should write to the Chief 
 Executive of your insurers, at the address shown on your schedule. 
 Ultimately, having exhausted both the above routes you have the right to ask 
 the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau or the Personal Insurance Arbitration Service 
 to review your case. You can write to the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau at City 
 Gate One, 135 Park Street, London SE1 9EA and the Personal Insurance 
 Arbitration Service at the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, 25 Angel 
 Gate, London, EC1V 2RS. You may also seek help from the Association of 
 British Insurers at 51 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7HQ. This complaints 
 procedure does not affect your rights to take legal action against us.
 
Documentation 
 
You are reminded that it is your personal 
 responsibility, under the Road Traffic Acts, to ensure that you are in 
 possession of a current valid cover note or certificate of insurance before 
 using your vehicle on the public highway.
 
Cancellation
 
Practices vary between insurers, but be 
 aware that cancellation refunds are not given after a claim, and otherwise 
 calculated on a short period scale weighted in favour of the insurer as 
 their costs are similar whether a policy has run for one month or twelve. We 
 do not refund commission, since this was earned for arranging the policy 
 (unless you are replacing the policy through our Agency). Instalment charges 
 are not refunded.
 
Our charges
 
In order to cover the costs incurred, we 
 charge £20 each time a cheque is unpaid. If you know you will not have funds 
 to meet a cheque, just call us and we will be pleased to delay presentation 
 to assist.
 
Please take care of your Certificate of 
 Insurance. It is a legal document and duplicates incur a charge of £15.
 
We charge for payment by instalments - 
 please refer to your payment options.
 
We make a charge of £15 in respect of 
 adjustments to your policy (including cancellation), and do not refund 
 commission.
 
Account settlement
 
Accounts are payable immediately, and a 
 charge of £5 is added to any reminders after the first.
 
Year 2000 and other Date Recognition
 
 
No doubt you have heard of the problems 
 that may be caused due to equipment and electrical items being unable to 
 recognise certain dates, which may result in failure or breakdown.Insurance 
 policies have never been intended to cover items that simply breakdown or 
 fail to work and failure to handle a date correctly is an example. An 
 endorsement clarifying that failed items are not covered is included in your 
 Policy or Schedule. Please check the endorsement carefully and refer back to 
 us if you do not understand it.
 
We reserve the right to revise charges 
 without notice.
 
Data Protection
 
The details which you have supplied may be 
 used by Taylor Price Direct Choice for statistical and research 
 purposes. We may use them to send you details of further products and 
 services and special offers supplied by us and others. If you would rather 
 NOT receive this information, please write to Taylor Price Direct Choice, 
 NEWMARKET, Suffolk CB8 9FT or e-mail us at 
 optout@directchoice.co.uk 
 
 
Telephone Calls
 
Calls may be recorded or monitored to 
 ensure a consistent and high quality of service. 
 
Cooling-off Period
 
If there is any further information you 
 require before committing yourself you must call us. If you buy cover 
 without calling us you will be deemed to have all the information you 
 require and no cooling-off period will apply (see GISC button).
 Products described on these pages apply to 
 UK mainland applicants only.
 
Copyright Taylor Price & 
 Co. 1998-2002
 
 
 Homepage -
 About us - Legal -
 GISC - Privacy Online Quotes -
 Car -
 Motorcycle -
 Home -
 Van - 
 
 Breakdown
 
 
 
