
PoundGates Holdings, Insurance & Risk Management Solutions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tel. 
 +44 (0) 1473 216406
 Email info@poundgates.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commercial 
 
 Insurance
 
 
 
Offering a range 
 of services to all business sectors PoundGates specialise in 
 insurance programme design, risk placing and risk management for UK 
 and international concerns.
 
We have unique 
 experience in the development of solutions for both Marine and Commercial 
 risks. 
 With access to Lloyds of London and a comprehensive range of ABI registered 
 Insurers we can secure the most competitive premiums and terms. That's 
 why other brokers come to us to place their clients' insurances!
 
What We Offer
 Security of dealing with 
 a registered and regulated insurance broker
 An innovative intermediary 
 with the technical skills, marketplace awareness and skill to design 
 comprehensive risk management programmes and individual products
 Impartial advice on the 
 key issues that threaten your business including legislative developments, 
 disaster recovery and risk profiling
 
The Benefits 
 to You
 Value for money from your 
 insurance premium and loss prevention expenditure
 Peace of mind that key 
 business assets and exposures are protected
 A personalised and tailored 
 service to match your needs
 A creative intermediary 
 constantly developing solutions for the 
 changing economic and legislative climate 
 
Our Expertise 
 & Service
 We have the strength to deliver solutions in all sectors of industry 
 but have developed particular specialisms in covers for international 
 cargo, transport companies, exporters and motor manufacturers. 
 
The cornerstone 
 of our success has been the development of unique branded solutions 
 catering for the precise needs of client groups. 
 
We have created 
 a portfolio of services which minimise the cost and impact of risk 
 beyond the traditional insurance policy approach. From Disaster Recovery 
 Planning, Health & Safety and Loss of Reputation through to Risk 
 Assessment and Employment Practices Protection we can tailor a package 
 to suit individual client needs.
 
 Our team of dedicated claims staff provide specialist professional 
 advice and assistance to all PoundGates clients, including a growing 
 number of companies seeking management of their self-insured losses.
 
In addition to 
 being registered insurance brokers PoundGates & Company is a member 
 of the General Insurance Standards Council and has full ISO 9002 accreditation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contacts
 
 
 
 
 Gary 
 Johnson
 Broking Manager
 Send Email
 
 
 
 
 
 Tim 
 Foster
 Technical Director
 Send Email
 
 
 
 
 
 John 
 Reilly 
 Manager (Sales & Development)
 Send Email
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Top of the page 
 
 
 
 
 
