
Information about income protection insurance for UK residents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information
 about income protection insurance
 
Our
 income protection insurance.
 is for UK residents only - we cannot quote for other people.
 
Why you need income protection insurance - the
 Government won't help you (much!)
 
- 
 
 A suitable
 income protection insurance policy would have helped 90 families a day who had their homes repossessed in 2000. 
 
- 
 
The alternative to income protection insurance is income
 support. This is £60 per week and most people wont get it!
 
- 
 
One in three people aged between 25 and 34 have experienced
 unemployment for a period in excess of one month.
 
- 
 
Every adult in Britain is five times more likely to suffer a
 serious disability than die before the age of 60.
 
- 
 
New mortgage borrowers obtain no assistance for nine months.
 
- 
 
102,000 claimants have been turned down for incapacity
 benefit. Recently the Government has suggested reviewing those who do
 receive this benefit every three years.
How can we help you
 
- 
 
You don't need a mortgage to qualify for cover. We can help
 pay a mortgage amount, rent, loans, household bills or whatever.
 
- 
 
Immediate cover and free transfer from another insurer.
 
- 
 
Only a 30 day excess period
 
- 
 
Benefits payable for 12 or 24months
 
- 
 
We can cover self-employed, directors and proprietors of
 businesses if the business ceases to trade.
 
- 
 
Tax free benefits
 
- 
 
Premiums are not loaded on the basis of age, gender,
 occupation or smoking habits.
 
Click
Here to obtain a quotation for our income protection insurance policy or
request further details.
Are you eligible?
 
- 
 
You must be over 18 but under 64 and are permanently
 resident in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man
 
- 
 
You must be actively working and have been in continuous
 employment for more than six months before the start date. You are not
 eligible if you work in temporary or seasonal employment.
 
- 
 
You must be in good health and know of no impending
 unemployment or disability.
How much cover can you have?
 
- 
 
You may have up to £2,500 per month or 50% of your gross
 monthly salary (average to include overtime, commission and bonuses
 over the last 12 months)
 
Are any occupations unacceptable?
 
 
- 
 
If you are in the tourist, telecommunications or
 airline industry then it is possible, depending on your firm, that
 the underwriters who provide these on-line rates may not accept you.
 Do not Panic! B. Portwood & Co Ltd, being brokers, have
 access to several other plans - all of which provide competitive
 rates. Click on the link below or contact us on 01388 609143 and we
 shall obtain an alternative quotation.
 
 
Can I see the policy wordings?
 
 
- 
 
Copies of the policy wordings are available from our
 home page. They are available both in PDF
 format (Acrobat) and as an MSWORD
 document. Alternatively you may open either by clicking the
 links in this paragraph
 
How do I apply?
Our policy is available on-line -
or you may request further details. From our home page you may obtain an
illustrative quotation for cover with or without disability insurance.
Click here for
our mortgage repayment policy
Click Here to go to our Home Page
Goodincomeprotection.co.uk
is a trading name of B. Portwood & Co. Ltd. Click here to go to our main
website with information on many other policies
 
 
For income protection you need
look no further than Goodincomeprotection!
 
 
 
 
 
 
