
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance MPPI PPI Quotes Company UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance
 
MPPI Policy Wording
 (back)
 
26. Access to medical records
 
 We may ask the doctor (or consultant) who is caring for 
 you to fill in a medical report so we can deal with your 
 proposal for this insurance. To do this, we need your permission. 
 Please sign the Access to Medical Reports Act 1988 (in Northern 
 Ireland The Access to Personal Files and Medical Reports 
 (Northern Ireland) Order 1991) declaration contained on 
 the proposal.
 
 You do not have to give your permission to our Chief Medical 
 Officer being given the report. However, under these circumstances, 
 we may be unable to process your proposal. If you give your 
 permission, you have the right to tell your doctor (or consultant) 
 that you want to see the report before it is sent to us. 
 In this case, your doctor (or consultant) cannot send it 
 to us unless you have either seen the report or 21 days 
 have passed without you contacting your doctor (or consultant) 
 to arrange to see the report. If at first you decide that 
 you do not want to see the report but you change your mind 
 before your doctor (or consultant) sends us the report, 
 you can tell your doctor (or consultant). You will then 
 have 21 days to see the report. We may not be able to go 
 ahead with your proposal without medical information. As 
 a result, the sooner you act, the quicker we can consider 
 your proposal for this insurance. Whether or not you ask 
 to see the report before it is sent to us, your doctor (or 
 consultant), if you ask, must let you see a copy for up 
 to six months after they send it to us. If you ask for a 
 copy of the report, your doctor (or consultant) may charge 
 a reasonable fee to cover the cost.
 
 If you see the report before it is sent to us, your doctor 
 (or consultant) cannot send it to us until he or she has 
 your permission. You can ask your doctor (or consultant) 
 to change any part of the report, and if they refuse you 
 can ask your doctor (or consultant) to send us a separate 
 statement with the report giving the reasons why you consider 
 it to be wrong or misleading. Your doctor (or consultant) 
 can refuse to let you see any part of the report that in 
 his or her opinion would be likely to cause you or others 
 any physical or mental harm. They can refuse if any part 
 of the report may reveal information about another person 
 unless that person gives permission or has cared for you 
 in a professional way. In these cases, your doctor (or consultant) 
 must tell you. You could then see any other part of the 
 report. If it is the whole report that is affected, your 
 doctor (or consultant) must not send it to us unless you 
 give your permission.
 
 
 
 (back)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bookmark this page
 
 
 
 Search 
 the web: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MPPI 
 quotes
 About MPPI
 Policy features
 Policy wording
 Making claims
 Company information 
 
 More MPPI websites 
 
 Back to homepage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgages
 Remortgages
 Loans 
 Credit cards
 Critical 
 illness 
 Life insurance
 - 
 Term life asurance 
 - Mortgage 
 protection
 Income protection
 Dental 
 insurance 
 PMI medical insurance
 Travel 
 insurance 
 
 More subjects... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
