
	
	lloyds.com: D&O rates and the Enron legacy 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
	
	Login 
	 
 
 
	
	 Help 
	 
 
 
	
	 Search 
	 
 
 
	
	 About lloyds.com 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 Market Finder 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	Market Intelligence 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Country Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Industry Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Reference 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	Contact List 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	Homepage: 
	 
	
	Market Intelligence: 
	 
	
	
	Analysis: D&O rates and the Enron legacy
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 D&O rates and the Enron legacy 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	Ten-fold increases may be needed on some D&O insurance layers to pay for known losses, heard a recent conference in New York. But the industry may not have big enough reserves to pay for these massive hits, National Underwriter's Susan Sclafane reports. 
	
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Breaking even 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 With a year's worth of rate hikes and coverage adjustments behind them, directors' and officers' liability insurers and reinsurers are not much closer to profitability, or are simply breaking even, according to specialists who reported on the market at a recent conference.
Even before Enron put a cloud over the financial reports of corporate America, D&O insurers were devising strategies to fix loss ratios of 150 (300 for reinsurers), and to keep ahead of the uncertain costs of more than 700 existing securities cases filed since 1995, they say. 
Plans that included dramatic fixes like 30% co-insurance levels just a few months ago are quickly becoming yesterday's news, insurers and brokers say. Now, with the all-but-certain prospect of daily accounting restatements from corporate clients ahead of them in the post-Enron world, some are contemplating much more drastic measures.
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Problem solving 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 "While I think it is a relatively easy solution to get customers to put some skin in the game, I am not sure (co-insurance) by itself, will solve the problem," said Robert Cox, senior vice-president of Chubb Specialty in Simsbury, Connecticut, at the recent Professional Liability Underwriting Society's (Plus) D&O Symposium in New York.
The problem that he and others referred to is one in which corporations simply offer up the limits of their D&O insurance programmes to settle claims in securities cases. The firms concerned may have been accused of issuing false statements, and are ultimately not found to be the architects of intentional fraud - which is not covered by insurance. 
With market capitalisations 'exploding' over the last ten years, settlements now routinely outstrip programme limits, they say. "What needs to happen is that there truly needs to be a shift in how we are thinking about D&O insurance," Cox said. Of Fortune 100 companies, he said: "If they are going to continue to buy this and we are going to continue to offer it, we are not just talking about co-insurance, but retentions up into the high eight and nine-figures."
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Sustainability 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 "If there is going to be any economic benefit and sustainable product in the long run, those kinds of changes will need to take place," he said at a session on the future of the D&O marketplace. 
Greg Flood, chief operating officer of National Union in New York, agreed that co-insurance percentages and retentions need to be meaningful enough to affect behaviour. He described a situation where his company was a party to the mediation for a soon-to-be-announced mega-settlement, noting that the defendant will take a $370m income hit, after taxes. "To see this company prepared to settle was astounding to us," he said. 
At an earlier session, James Oa€™Neill, director of Aon Financial Services Group in New York, reported that buyers have not yet accepted co-insurance or retentions on their D&O programmes, because insurers have not yet offered dramatic savings in return. 
"When you are looking at a major (premium) increase and you can get a 5% decrease to double your retention a€” that is not appealing to most of our clients," he said.
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Ten-fold increases 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 Chris Sparro, president of the Middle Market & Commercial Divisions for National Union, said that a buyer of a $100m limit programme was not even willing to accept 30% co-insurance with a 30% premium credit. 
In an environment where corporate directors want more insurance, not less, brokers and insurers say corporate budgets really need to be strained before clients will accept co-insurance or high deductibles - or that insurers will need to stop offering the option of buying without such risk-sharing mechanisms.
As far as catching up on rates, according to Flood, ten-fold increases are needed on some D&O insurance layers to pay for known losses. "Just for 1997 and 1998, settlements over $100m add up to $1.3bn so far," he said, adding that resolutions of cases involving Lucent, Oxford, "and a couple of big ones" insurers are working on "will come close to doubling that easily".
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Claims call shortfalls 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 In the last ten years, he said, layers of D&O insurance above $100m were priced at $2,200 per million. To fund losses over $100m, just for 1997 and 1998, that rate would have to soar to $20,000 per million, he said. 
In a "coming to Jesus" revelation, he said National Union's cash flow was not enough to cover all its claim calls in 2001, noting it had to borrow $200m from its parent (AIG) to cover them. "That is a scary situation," he said. 
"I do not think most of us at this table realise how much we need to get," said Lance Dalzell-Piper, lead underwriter for Faraday Underwriting in London. "I still think this industry is woefully under-reserved with respect to the 700 or 800 active securities class actions outstanding."
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Low reserves 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 Dalzell-Piper said he was uncomfortable the industry is reserved at even half of that, citing the $15bn aggregate estimate of the ultimate cost of those actions based on historical settlement values presented a day earlier by Tower Snow, defense lawyer and partner of San Francisco-based Brobeck, Pleger & Harrison. 
Asked about the outlook for new D&O insurance facilities entering the market, he said: "It is just a damn shame. That is really all I can say," echoing the sentiments of several insurers and brokers who warned new entrants of the dangers they will be facing. 
There was also a lot of discussion about capacity that left the market in 2001 - including an unquantified amount of reinsurance capacity once supplied by the London market. 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Pulling back 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 "If it was a wide open market, with the potential for all sorts of profit, people would be jumping in," said David Kalainoff, senior vice-president for Transatlantic Reinsurance Company in New York. Instead, "we 
are seeing the opposite, with reinsurers pulling back from the line". 
At a session on reinsurance, he presented his view that the potential for "serious profit" 
in the D&O line in the next one or two years is non-existent.
"If you do not see any profit on the horizon, don't we have a duty to do something different?" 
asked William McLaughlin, vice- president of specialty casualty of Partner Reinsurance Company of the US in Greenwich, Connecticut. 
"Should we take the money and invest in T-bills if we are going to just lose money by supporting reinsurance treaties? The profit margins are not there, and maybe there are other places to put your money," Kalainoff said. T-bills - US Treasury bills - are short-term securities that mature in one year or less from their issue date. 
He added: "It could be in T-bills, other lines of professional liability, aviation, (but) I do think it is one of the duties of management to figure out what their profit margins are and, in fact, to move in that direction."
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Profit margins 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 Greg Coda, marketing director for Swiss Re America in Armonk, New York, said such discussions are "taking place right now because the profit margins built into standard lines - property lines and 'normal' casualty lines - have a lot more predictability than professional liability and D&O". 
"Rational insurance and reinsurance managements will make rational allocations of capital to those lines that make the biggest returns," he said. 
"The last thing we want to see, as an industry, is the transfer of capital from our shareholders to the plaintiffs bar," he added, insisting that supporting plaintiffs' lawyers with "blank cheques" is not the purpose of D&O insurance.
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Fingers crossed 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 An aggressive plaintiffs' bar is just one factor that participants in the two-day symposium presented by the Minneapolis-based Plus had on a list of drivers of unprofitable D&O results. 
While they repeatedly referred to the multi-billion securities class action settlements for Cendant, Rite-Aid, Waste Management, and others, they also bemoaned the past sins of insurers and reinsurers as contributors to the D&O profitability problem. 
Enron will help sharpen underwritersa€™ pencils, but the multi-year programmes and reinsurance treaties they wrote in the past are still impacting profitability, according to John McElroy, senior vice-president of Gulf Insurance Group in New York. 
"I am not going to share the number," he said, "but I am sure my competitors also have a large chunk of in-force policies still on multi-year deals that have not been reunderwritten in three years. 
"We are getting claims on them today and there is nothing we can do ... but cross our fingers."
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 Laddering cases 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 Insurers and reinsurers, which debated questions of whether diligent underwriting could uncover a potential Enron and the effectiveness of actuarial science in the pricing process, were less concerned about the ultimate cost of Enron than its legacy. 
Just days after PNC Bank and Global Crossing had also announced that accounting restatements and securities suits were filed against them, Plus participants repeatedly referred to a report on the level of accounting restatements presented by Thomas Newkirk, associate director of the US Securities & Exchange Commission. 
"We have 250 financial fraud and reporting cases in our inventory and they are coming in now at a rate of one per day," he said. 
"We think that is going to continue (because) auditors recognise that we are in a different climate than we were a year ago." He said auditors are requiring more restatements and are more inclined to blow the whistle on their clients. 
Abusive practices 
During his presentation, Newkirk also discussed the SEC's recent filing of charges against New York investment bank Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB) for abusive practices related to initial public offerings. CSFB has agreed to pay $100m to settle those charges and similar ones filed by the National Association of Securities Dealers. 
The alleged practices of CSFB, other investment banks, and IPO issuers in a group of more than 320 cases known as 'laddering cases,' which late last year seemed like the biggest potential headache for D&O insurers that cover the issuers, took a back seat to Enron at the Plus meeting. 
However, at one point Snow reported there are ongoing discussions between defendants and plaintiffs in these cases about stipulations to dismiss certain claims against all issuers, directors and officers, while staying others. 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 	Susan Sclafane is a senior editor with National Underwriter. The online edition can be accessed here. To comment on this or other articles, contact 
	comments@lloyds.com
	 
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
 
 For more information 
 
	 
	
	 
 	 
	 
 	 
	
 	
 	
	
	 
 	 
 	
	 
	Professional Liability Underwriting Society 
	
	 
 	 
 
	
	
	 
	 
 	 
	
 	
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
	
	 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More from lloyds.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Reputation & corporate governance 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Risk managers' terrorism juggling act 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Weekly worldwide news review: 
 July 1-5 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	New York's insurers must take action 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Weekly worldwide news review: 
 June 24-28 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Aviation: Funding war risk coverage 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	The rarity of rogue trader coverage 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Contact us 
 
 
 
 Terms 
 and Conditions 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 and Security 
	 
 
 
 Site Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © lloyds.com Limited 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
