
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 Members &nbsp 
 Info 
 Help 
 Press 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security and 
 Privacy 
 
	
 
	 
 
 
 RapidInsure.co.uk 
 is committed to protecting the privacy of the information 
 you provide. This page explains how we use the information 
 you give us and what we do to ensure that it remains safe 
 and is not misused. 
 
The 
 information we require 
 
RapidInsure.co.uk 
 requires the minimum of information to deliver an insurance 
 quotation and then provide you with the actual policy. Because 
 of this it is important you fill in all the required details 
 correctly. Of particular importance is your email address. 
 
 
Occasionally 
 to provide insurance on certain policies we may need to collect 
 sensitive personal information relating to:
 
 
 
 
- the 
 physical or mental health or yourself, family or members 
 of your household
 
- the 
 commission or alleged commission by you or members of your 
 family or household of any criminal offence 
 
 
Where 
 such sensitive personal information relates to anyone other 
 than you, you must obtain the explicit consent of the person 
 to whom the information relates to.
 
How 
 we use the information
 
We 
 use your information only in connection with RapidInsure.co.uk's 
 web site; we commit never to sell your information 
 for marketing or other purposes to any outside third party;
 we also commit not pass on any of your
	details to third parties (excluding the policy underwriters, please see below)
	except where you have authorised us to do so. 
 
We 
 will not disclose any personally identifiable information 
 without your permission unless we are legally expected and 
 entitled to do so (for example, if required to do so by Court 
 order).
 
We 
 require your email address as this is the address where we 
 send your policy documents (for you to save or print), and 
 where we will contact you with renewal reminders or information 
 related to your policy. Other information you supply is used 
 to generate a competitive quote for insurance and then to 
 generate your policy. 
 
To 
 allow us to develop and improve both the web site and the 
 insurance policies we regularly analyse all the information 
 that you, our members provide. We may occasionally email you 
 details of updates to the web site, special offers or new 
 insurance policies. If you would rather not receive this material 
 you have the opportunity to opt out when we request your email address.
	Alternatively, you can simply send an unsubscribe
	email request to RapidInsure.co.uk.
 
If 
 you are currently or have previously been a customer of ours 
 then we may continue to process data for as long as we have 
 an agreement with you and for a reasonable period of time 
 afterwards (for example, we may be legally obliged to retain 
 information about you even after your policy has expired).
 
How 
 the Insurers will use your information 
 
Insurers 
 and their agents share information with each other to prevent 
 fraudulent claims and to assess whether to offer insurance 
 (including the terms) via The Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
 register. This is operated by Insurance Database Services 
 Ltd and the Association of British Insurers. Lists of participants 
 are available on request. In dealing with your application 
 the registers may be searched. In the event of a claim, the 
 information you supply on the web site and the claim form 
 will be put on the register and made available to participants. 
 
 
If 
 you enter in to an insurance contract through RapidInsure.co.uk, 
 on acceptance of the quotation, you consent to the information 
 provided and any claim you may make being supplied to IDS 
 Ltd and the ABI so that it can be made available to the other 
 Insurers. You also agree that, in response to any searches 
 we may make in conjunction with your application or any claim, 
 IDS Ltd and ABI may supply information it has received from 
 other Insurers about other claims you have made. 
 
Anonymous 
 Site Statistics
 
Along 
 with most major sites we may automatically collect non-personal 
 information such as the type of internet browsers being used 
 to view our site. You will not be identified from this information 
 and it is only used to assist us in providing an effective 
 service on this web site.
 
We 
 may store some information (commonly known as a "cookie") 
 on your computer when you look at our site. This information 
 facilitates your use of our web site and ensures that you 
 do not need to re-enter all your details every time you visit. 
 You can erase or block this information from your computer 
 if you desire without adversely effecting the operation of, 
 or facilities available on this site. (Your help screen or 
 manual should tell you how to switch off "cookies"). 
 
Third 
 Parties
 
We 
 recommend that you check the privacy policies of other sites 
 carefully. If you have come to our web site from a third party 
 web site, we cannot be responsible for the privacy policies 
 and practices of that third party web site. 
 
We 
 may from time to time supply third parties with information 
 relating to the number of users linking to our web site. This 
 is purely for administration and you cannot be identified 
 from this information. 
 
How 
 we protect your information
 
We 
 keep your information confidential and stored on a password 
 protected server, with the payment system and member services 
 secured using SSL encryption algorithm. This means that all 
 information of a personal nature sent between your browser 
 and our server is encrypted. This helps to ensure that only 
 we have access to it. RapidInsure.co.uk is proud to hold a 
 BT TrustWise (Verisign) site certificate.
 
RapidInsure's 
 internal security procedures safeguard the storage, access and disclosure 
 of your information. 
	 
Security Management
 
Our 
 Webmaster, Nick 
 Jones, is responsible for the security of the Rapidinsure.co.uk 
 web site and associated information. As part of these responsibilities 
 Nick regularly reviews and updates the security of the web 
 site and supporting hardware to ensure all transactions and 
 information are as secure as possible. 
 
Internal 
 procedures are regularly reviewed and updated by Jon Pardoe, 
 in consultation with the Webmaster. Rapidinsure.co.uk has 
 formulated its security standards using BS7799 
 (Code of Practice for Information Security Management) as 
 its guide.
	 
Consumer 
 Protection Laws 
	 
Rapidinsure.co.uk is happy to comply with consumer
	 protection laws, including 
	 
	 
- Sale of Goods Act 1979
	 
- Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982
	 
- Consumer Credit Act 1974
	 
- Trade Descriptions Act 1968
	 
- Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977
	 
- Consumer Protection Act 1987
	 
- Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tour Regulations 1992
	 
- Data Protection Act 1998
	 
	 RapidInsure is always willing to resolve complaints concerning consumer protection laws.
	 
	
 
	 
	
	 
	
 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
©RapidInsure.co.uk and associates
All visitors to our website are covered by our Terms of Service
