
	
	
	CIS Further Information
	
	
	
	
	
	
Unit Trusts : General
	
For good returns over the medium to long term, an investment in CIS unit trusts is money well spent. For more information on our full range, complete the form below. 
	
	
	
	
	
	Title 
	
	Mr
	Mrs
	Ms
	Miss
	Dr
	 
	
	
	Name 
	 
	
	
	Address 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	Town/city 
	 
	
	
	Full Postcode 
	 
	
	
	Home Telephone No 
	 
	
	
	Work Telephone No 
	 
	
	
	Email Address 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	Are you an existing CIS customer 
	
	Please choose
	yes
	no
	 
	
	
	
	
How did you hear about the CIS Unit Trusts?
	
	
	
	
	 
	Agent 
	 
	
	
	 
	Newspaper/Magazine Advertisement 
	
	
	Please specify publication : 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	CIS website 
	 
	
	
	 
	Other 
	
	
	Please specify :
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
In addition to the requested information, I would also like to receive more details on the following products:
	
	
	
	
	 
	Other Unit Trusts 
	
	
	 
	Life Products 
	
	
	 
	Pensions 
	
	
	 
	Motor 
	
	
	 
	Household 
	
	
	 
	Savings and Investment 
	
	
	 
	Pet Insurance 
	
	
	 
	Caravan Insurance 
	
	
	
	
Would you like your local CIS Agent to visit you? Yes No
	
	
	
	
	Register your renewal date for motor/household insurance and you could win £1000 in holiday vouchers in our monthly free prize draw. 
	
	
	 
	Renewal date 
	Day 
	 
	Month 
	 
	Year 
	 
	
	
	Please select cover required 
	Buildings 
	 
	Contents 
	 
	Motor 
	 
	
	
	
	
	The information you have provided on this request form is collected on behalf of Co-operative Insurance Society (CIS) and will be used in the administration of your request. This information may also be used by CIS or its subsidiary companies for research and marketing purposes. You may ask at any time (for a small fee) to see the information held by CIS relating to you. If any of this information is inaccurate you may ask us to correct it. You may also choose not to receive information about other CIS marketing group products in which case please indicate "NO" in this box.
	
	CIS representatives can advise on the life assurance, pension and unit trust products of the CIS marketing group only.
	
	Co-operative Insurance Society Limited Miller Street, Manchester M60 OAL, United Kingdom Telephone: 0161-832 8686
	
	The CIS marketing group includes Co-operative Insurance Society Limited (for life assurance and pensions), and CIS Unit Managers Limited (for unit trusts and PEPs), both of which are regulated by the Personal Investment Authority. CIS Unit Managers is also regulated by IMRO. 
	
	
	
	
	
	Yes
	No
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
