
James Hampden Worldwide Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
(a) Cancellation, Curtailment and "Get you There" Expenses
 
 To pay up to £5,000 for irrecoverable loss of unused travel and 
accommodation expenses paid in advance or for which there is a 
contractual liability, consequent upon the cancellation or 
curtailment of the pre-arranged Period of Travel; or if the Period of 
Travel is not cancelled.
 
 To pay up to £1000 in all in respect of reasonable additional 
travel and accommodation expenses incurred by the Insured Person in 
fulfilling his pre-booked travel and accommodation commitments 
(following an occurrence covered under Sub-sections (i) to (iv) or in 
using equivalent alternative local accommodation (following an 
occurrence covered under Sub-section (v);
 
 Consequent upon any of the following occurrences:
 
 (i) the Insured Person sustaining bodily injury or becoming ill.
 
 (ii) the death, injury or illness of the Insured Person's relative, 
fiance(e) or business colleague or of any person with whom the 
Insured Person had arranged to travel or reside, or of the relative, 
fiance(e) or business colleague of such person.
 
 (iii) the Insured Person or any person with whom he had arranged to 
travel or reside being:
 
 (a) quarantined or called for witness or jury service.
 
 (b) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for 
payment under the United Kingdom's Redundancy Payments Acts.
 
 (c) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, the 
defence or civil administration, the police force, or the fire, 
rescue, public utility or medical services.
 
 (d) required to be present at his home or place of business in the 
United Kingdom following burglary or major damage.
 
 (iv) The cancellation or delayed departure for 24 hours or more of an 
aircraft, sea vessel or other publicly licensed form of passenger 
transport in which the Insured Person had previously booked to 
travel, resulting from any of the following contingencies: strike, 
industrial action, hijack, criminal act, bomb scare, 
riot, civil commotion, fire, flood, earthquake, landslide, avalanche, 
adverse weather conditions, accident or mechanical breakdown provided 
always that such contingency had not occurred, commenced or been 
announced before the booking was made in respect of the flight, 
voyage or journey thus affected.
 
 (v) major damage rendering uninhabitable the accommodation in which 
the Insured Person had previously booked to reside during the Period 
of Travel, excluding any waterborne vessel or craft.
 
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (2)
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (3)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
