
Home Ins. Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home Insurance Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPEAK TO A SALES
 ADVISER TO OBTAIN A HOME INSURANCE QUOTATION
 
CALL 0870 735 3033 UK
 24hrs
 
 STOP
 PRESS SOME BUILDING SOCIETIES 
 AND BANKS
 CHARGE YOU JUST TO MOVE
 YOUR HOME INSURANCE TO A BETTER AND MORE COST EFFECTIVE PROVIDER.
 SAVEINSURANCE FIND
 THIS PRACTICE UNFAIR,
 TO HELP YOU MOVE YOUR INSURANCE WE
 WILL PAY THE PENALTY! (UP
 TO £35.00)
 
 
HOME INSURANCE GUIDE
 
How do I go about lowering my your Home Insurance Premiums.
 
 
 1)
 Is it possible to reduce my home insurance premiums without cutting back
 on the cover?
 
 
 Yes it is, set about the job bearing in mind the following:
 
Seek several insurance quotes and compare what each policy includes.
 
Look at your home through the eyes of a burglar and take some crime
 prevention measures. Your insurance company or broker will be able to
 provide you with a list of measures you can take to make your property
 more secure. The local police will invariably have a crime prevention unit
 willing to advise. Join or set up a neighborhood watch scheme in the local
 area.
 
 2)
 Having taken crime prevention steps, am I sure to receive lower quotes?
 
 
 Almost certainly, leading insurers recognize that policyholders who've
 taken preventative action are likely to be a better risk. To this extent,
 an increasing number of insurers are rewarding householders for taking
 crime prevention measures. Check with the individual insurer - some are
 even offering 'motor style' no claim bonuses.
 
 3)
 Having received the cheapest quote, should I accept it?
 
 Yes
 you should, but satisfy yourself you're dealing with a reputable insurer
 who's going to be able to deliver the kind of service you expect. It pays
 to shop around; you can talk to a broker or phone an insurer direct, and
 remember you can now buy insurance conveniently on the Internet.
 
 4)
 I bought my building and contents insurance via the building society when
 I arranged a mortgage. Am I bound to stay with them, or can I switch my
 insurance elsewhere ?
 
 You
 are not bound to buy your building or contents insurance from your home
 lender, unless of course you agreed to a special
 mortgage deal which compelled you to buy 'their' insurance. Mortgage
 lenders tend to have an arrangement with an insurer who will provide at
 least buildings insurance to borrowers. It is convenient for the lender
 because having set up an arrangement, they know clearly what the cover
 includes. However, it may not be the best deal for you in price terms and
 you might choose to shop around. If you decide to use another insurer,
 your home lender will have to give its approval. They'll want to check
 through the policy details and for this 'service' they may charge you a
 fee of around £ 25.
 
 5)
 People say that building insurance is 'compulsory' while contents cover is
 'voluntary' -is this so ?
 
 
 Strictly speaking, both building and contents insurance are both optional,
 but it's wise to have both.
 
Building Insurance: When you take out a mortgage to
 purchase your home, the lender will insist you have this cover. If the
 property were to fall down, the lender would want to know that there is
 insurance to cover such a catastrophe. For this reason, most people are
 sold building insurance at the time they take out a home loan.
 
Contents Insurance: cover your possessions, such as
 your television, furniture and carpets. Additionally, the policy provides
 liability insurance. If someone were to visit your home, trip and injure
 themselves, they may make a claim against you. Such a claim could be for a
 considerable amount .
 
 6)
 In the case of building insurance - what's covered?
 
 
 In addition to the structure, a buildings policy covers permanent fixtures
 and fittings such as baths, toilets and fitted kitchens, bedroom cupboards
 and interior decorations. The test is - can the fixture reasonably be
 removed and taken to a new home ? Policies usually extend to include
 outbuildings such as garages, greenhouses and garden sheds. Boundary
 walls, fences, gates, paths, drives and swimming pools may not be covered.
 The policy may also provide you with alternative accommodation if your
 home is uninhabitable. The main
 risks which your property faces include fire, theft and damage caused
 by subsidence.
 
 7)
 How do I know how much to insure my home for?
 
 
 You need to insure your property for the full rebuilding cost. This is not
 the same as the price you paid, or the valuation given to your home by the
 council tax valuation office. It is calculated by taking into account such
 factors as the floor area and the region of the UK in which you live. It
 is your responsibility to calculate the correct rebuilding
 cost.
 
 8)
 In the case of home contents insurance - what's covered?
 
 
 A contents policy covers just about everything you would take with you if
 you moved. Furniture, furnishings, household goods, kitchen equipment,
 frozen food and drink, televisions, video, computer and audio equipment,
 clothing, personal items and valuables up to stated limits.
 
Most policies cover loss or damage to your possessions while in your
 home and caused by risks such as fire, theft, and flooding.
 
Many policies include accidental breakage of mirrors, and glass tops.
 Some policies cover accidental damage to television, videos, home
 computers and audio equipment - in any event, you can often extend the
 policy to cover accidental damage to all items. Once you remove items from
 your home your cover is likely to be limited or even non existent.
 
 9)
 If I'm worried about having my home broken into, what preventative
 measures can I take to bring down my premiums?
 
 
 The feeling that someone has been in your home can live with you for a
 long time. Insurance cover can help you sort out your losses in financial
 terms, but it won't compensate you for the emotional distress.
 
That's good reason enough for taking crime prevention measures which
 ought to reduce your premiums:
 
 
 
 make sure you have adequate locks on outside doors.
 put key operated locks on windows.
 don't make it obvious when you're out or away on holiday.
 Mark your property with your postcode and make a list of your
 valuables, noting the serial numbers of electronic appliances.
 Have an alarm fitted by an approved supplier.
 Join a neighborhood watch scheme. 
 
 Ask your insurer for a list and for details of discounts which they may
 offer for taking precautionary measures.
 
 10)
 If after getting several quotations, I still find the amount I'm asked to
 pay too high, are there any other options?
 
 
 If you're looking to cut your premiums still further, you may want to
 consider accepting a higher excess.
 In this way, you can accept to pay a larger amount yourself in the event
 of a claim. In any event, don't be tempted to cut your premiums by
 under-insuring. In the event of a claim, the insurer is likely to scale
 down what it's prepared to offer you by way of a pay out.
 
 
 
 
 
 HOME
 INSURANCE QUOTES CLICK HERE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This theme Copyright © 2000 TWC
 Graphics Design and its respective artists.
 
 
 
 
 
