
 
Cornhill Direct
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
 	
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 Quick Quotes 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 
 Van 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 
 Life 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
	 
Further Information of the Senior Security Plan
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your right to 
 cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After we accept the proposal, we send 
 you your policy document and a letter explaining your 
 right to cancel. Under the Financial Services (Cancellation) 
 (Amendment) Rules 1997 you will have up to 15 days to 
 change your mind. If you do cancel during this period 
 we will refund your payments in full.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Premiums 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The first premium is due on the date 
 your life cover starts. Your premiums will then be due 
 on the second day of each month either by direct debit 
 or standing order. 
 
You must make sure that you always pay 
 the premiums or we could end your plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ending 
 your plan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You can stop your plan at any time by 
 writing to us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No cash-in 
 or paid-up value 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will not pay any benefit if you stop 
 paying premiums.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Charges 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will use all your premiums to cover 
 the cost of your life cover, any benefits, commission 
 and expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You don't usually have to pay personal 
 tax on lump sum benefits from the plan. However your 
 dependants may have to pay inheritance tax. If your 
 plan is put in trust you can normally avoid inheritance 
 tax.The tax laws can change at any time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Policyholders' 
 protection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme
 protects policyholders in case an insurer cannot meet its 
 liabilities (pay all claims). You can get more information
 about the compensation arrangements from the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Law 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In legal disputes, the Law of England 
 and Wales will apply to this plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Customer service and complaints 
 procedures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our aim is to get it right first time. If we make a mistake we will try to put it
 right promptly. We will always confirm to you the receipt of your complaint within five working days and do our best to resolve
 the problem within four weeks. If we cannot we will let you know when an answer may be expected. If you would like to
 contact us, please write to: Customer Care Manager, Cornhill Direct, Customer Centre, 57 Ladymead, Guildford, GU1
 1DB. Freephone: 0800 521 543, Fax: 01483 790438, e-mail: cornhill.directlife@cornhill.co.uk. If we have not sorted out the situation
 within eight weeks we will provide you with information about the Financial Ombudsman Service.
	
If you are unhappy with the way we deal with your complaint, you can refer it to: The Insurance Division,
	Financial Ombudsman Service, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9SR.
	 Phone: 020 7216 0016. You can still take legal action if you make a complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Further 
 queries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This information is a brief guide to 
 the key features of the plan. There are full details 
 in the policy document which is the legally binding 
 contract between you and us. We will send you a specimen 
 policy document and a copy of your application form 
 if you ask us to. If you need any further information 
 about this plan, including another quotation, please 
 contact us free on: 0800 169 1605 (Monday to Friday 
 8am-8pm). If you need advice as to whether this product 
 is suitable for you, please contact an Independent Financial 
 Adviser. You may have to pay for this advice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Phone 
 calls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We may record and monitor your phone 
 calls with us. This helps us to develop and train our 
 staff to make sure we maintain our high standards of 
 customer service. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CORNHILL INSURANCE PLC is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Cornhill 
 Insurance Public Limited Company is registered in England No.84638. 
 
Registered Office: 32 Cornhill, London EC3V 3LJ, United 
 Kingdom. Cornhill Insurance, Direct Division, 57 Ladymead, Guildford, 
 Surrey, GU1 1DB, United Kingdom.
 Privacy & Legal Notice
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
Senior Security 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
 
 
