
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
We respect your privacy and will not sell or make 
 available in any way your personal information except where, you have 
 asked, to our IIFAs. They in turn, will be bound by the same Privacy Policy. 
 The nature of the services provided by AssureNet UK means that we may 
 obtain, certain information about you. This statement sets out the principles 
 governing our use of your data.
 
By registering to use our services and by using the 
 AssureNet UK web site generally, you agree to this use.
 
1. When you register and use the site, we will ask 
 you to provide certain data, such as your contact details and demographic 
 information. We will store this data and use it to contact you, provide 
 you with details of services and otherwise for the normal use and improvement 
 of our site.
 
2. We may also use the data you provide us to aggregate 
 user profiles. For the avoidance of doubt, AssureNet UK does not pass 
 data to any third parties except in the following circumstances; a) to 
 enable you to gain access to quotes, execution services and advice; or 
 b) to enable you to receive information you have requested to be sent 
 to you by post (we will disclose your address).
 
3. Our site may link to other web sites and we are 
 not responsible for their data policies or procedures or their content.
 
4. We endeavour to take all reasonable steps to protect 
 your personal data, but cannot guarantee the security of any data you 
 disclose online. You accept the inherent security implications of dealing 
 on-line over the internet and will not hold us responsible for any breach 
 of security unless we have been negligent or in wilful default.
 
5. We may supplement the information that you provide 
 us with information we receive from third parties. You have the right 
 to receive information about the personal information AssureNet UK maintains 
 on you. If you are concerned that any of the information we hold on you 
 is incorrect, please contact us.
 
6. Our IIFA partners have certain responsibilities 
 under Money Laundering legislation to verify the identity of clients and 
 may need to make certain enquiries and obtain certain information from 
 you for that purpose. You confirm that all information you supply will 
 be accurate and that we may pass on such information as we consider necessary 
 to comply with any reporting requirements.
 
7. You agree that we may disclose to any regulatory 
 authority to which we may become subject (or to investigators, inspectors 
 or agents appointed by them), or to any person empowered to require such 
 information by or under any legal enactment, any information they may 
 request or require relating to you.
 If you have any questions about our privacy policy, please 
 contact us at info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
