
 
 
	
 
 
RoyalSunAlliance - Virtual Media Centre
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	COLOR LAUNCHED BY RSA TO GIVE ON-LINE ROUND THE CLOCK PROFESSIONAL ADVICE FOR BRITAIN'S 3.6 MILLION SMALL BUSINESSES
	 
	
	
	
	
	24th July 2000 - 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Color (www.usecolor.com) is an on-line service dedicated to businesses with up to 25 staff. Launched today by Royal & SunAlliance, Color will help Britain’s 3.6 million SME entrepreneurs to run their companies more efficiently and successfully. 
Color helps firms to address their legal, health & safety, tax, VAT and employment law problems - as well as providing an on-line buying club. For queries that cannot be answered easily by the in-depth content available on the website, a team of over 80 qualified professionals is on-hand to answer any queries over the phone, day or night, at times to suit the business customer. 
Roy Coutinho, Director of Color said : 
"Color is a fully-accessible, round-the-clock advice service, which we aim to expand over the coming months, to an increasing range of small business customers, who have long been the engine-room of the British economy. However they have often been neglected, overlooked and mistreated by big business supply chains, which often consider companies with less than 25 people to be too small to warrant the service they deserve. 
"We’ve developed Color from the outside-in, starting with what businesses need, rather than the restricted services that are currently available to them. We’re using an approach that has revolutionised the consumer market over the past 5 years, but has hardly touched a quarter of the working population. 
"Color is about bringing this buying power into the UK entrepreneurial heartland, easing the peripheral problems facing these firms, and enabling them to focus on running their core business more efficiently and successfully. 
"Color gives small businesses access to business products and services at discounted rates, by leveraging big business buying power. We negotiate discounts and lower processing costs on behalf of our subscribers, to ease the daily running of their businesses” 
What Color offers 
&#61623; Advice and Assistance. In addition to the on-line information, qualified lawyers, tax and VAT advisors, employment law specialists and health and safety professionals will be available via a 24-hour help-line to advise on the ever-increasing burden of new and complex business issues. Typically, these include new legislation, employee issues, legal, VAT and taxation queries. Color subscribers can download legal documents, guidance notes and checklists relating to employment, health and safety, tax, VAT and law. Color updates our subscribers with changes to legislation as they happen, and then in quarterly updates. 
&#61623; A Buying Zone. Subscribers can save up to 65% on essential office items, as a result of strategic partnerships with key suppliers. In the next few months, the Buying Zone will extend to travel, utilities, employment, vehicles and office furniture. 
&#61623; The latest in Smart-Search facilities. This new method of "natural language” searching cuts out all the irrelevant information and provides accurately selected data to match the initial request. 
&#61623; An ISP. Color gives FREE internet access, with connection at local call charge rates, unlimited e-mails, and technical support through the Color contact-centre, seven days a week. 
Other services that will be rolled-out over the coming months include : 
&#61623; A web-enablement package - to help businesses establish their Internet profile, from a simple on-line presence to full e-commerce capability. 
&#61623; Wellness management - a specialist service to help look after the welfare of employees. 
&#61623; Financial products 
&#61623; On-line forums 
&#61623; Chat-rooms 
Initially, the Color service will be FREE to any subscriber for the first 60 days. Thereafter there will be a £15 monthly fee, giving unlimited access to five users. 
Nick Maguire, Director of Color, said : 
"At each stage of their development, fast-growing businesses face new and complicated challenges, from drafting employee contracts for new members of staff, to filing tax returns and working out PAYE calculations. Many new business owners don’t know where to turn for this type of advice. We have specialists whose expertise covers all these areas. They will cut the administrative burden faced by micro businesses and allow managers to concentrate on what they do best - running their companies” 
Commenting on the launch of Color, the first business launched by RSA’s new Global e-Ventures arm - Stuart Degg, e-Ventures CEO commented : 
"The new economy is transferring power away from suppliers towards consumers in a way never experienced before. RSA Global e-Ventures has been established to develop radical new propositions responding to this new reality. 
"Color is an excellent ‘first born’. It targets real customer needs, real time, real fast.” 
 For more information, please contact : 
Color,Josephine Fawkes(office hours)020 7623 7275 Color Press Office, at Fishburn Hedges (office hours)020 7839 4321 Color Press Office,24-hour/7-day pager 04325 709 466 RSA, Malcolm Gilbert(office hours)020 7610 8630 Pressoffice@usecolor.com 
Notes to Editors: 
Global e-Ventures The Global e-Ventures, the London based arm of Royal & SunAlliance was created to develop radical new propositions that will both transform and extend RSA’s core business. 
e.V provides an Incubation and Acceleration capability that enables RSA’s existing businesses to develop customer-centric solutions more radically, quickly, and creatively than in the traditional "workspace”. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc is one of the world’s largest multinational insurance groups and writes all major classes of general and life insurance. It is among the top 3 of multinational property and casualty operations worldwide. It has leading or significant market positions in the UK, USA, Canada, Scandinavia and Australia. There are development operations in Japan and China. The Group employs around 50,000 people in operations based in over 50 countries worldwide. It transacts business in over 130 countries and has 20 million customers around the globe. 
1999 worldwide premium income exceeded £10.4bn (US$16.6bn) and funds under management exceeded £61bn (US$98bn). 
 
	 
	
	
	
	Back to News Headlines
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
