
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance MPPI PPI Policy Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance
 
About MPPI | Why 
 buy MPPI? | State help 
 | Policy benefits
 
What are the policy benefits?
 
The policy that is available via this site is called mortgageSAFETYNET 
 and is arranged by the Goodfellows Group. MortgageSAFETYNET 
 can help you protect your monthly mortgage payment (known 
 as monthly benefit) if you lose your job due to unemployment 
 or you are unable to work due to a disability (accident 
 or sickness). 
 
 
 
- This policy will help you to protect your mortgage payments 
 and insurance premiums for up to 12 months if you become 
 unemployed or suffer a disability (accident or sickness).
 
- If you are taking out the policy to protect a new mortgage 
 or re-mortgage you will receive the first three months cover 
 completely FREE OF CHARGE. 
 
- If you are taking out the policy to protect an existing 
 mortgage, then subject to the unemployment exclusion detailed 
 below, you will receive the first three months cover completely 
 FREE OF CHARGE. 
 
 
 
Unemployment Exclusion - if you are taking out the policy 
 to protect an existing mortgage, you will not be covered 
 against any unemployment, which occurs during the free cover 
 period. This exclusion will not apply if you transfer your 
 cover from another insurer; provided your existing policy 
 has been in force for at least six months and you have not 
 made a claim under that policy. 
 
 
 
- MortgageSAFETYNET provides full unemployment and disability 
 cover. Unemployment only cover or disability only cover 
 is available at a reduced cost. 
 
- Competitive premium rates after the free cover period. 
 
 
- Back-to-Day-One benefits payable after 30 days. 
 
- Claim benefits are paid for up to 12 months. 
 
- This product covers employed and self-employed applicants. 
 
 
- Simple application procedure (no medical required). 
 
- Cover can be transferred from one lender to another. 
 
 
 
 
Important note - the maximum amount of monthly cover you 
 can take out under the policy (including the 25% additional 
 benefit) is either £1,500, or a sum equal to 65% of your 
 normal income, whichever is the lower (the definition of 
 normal income is provided in section 1 of the policy terms 
 and conditions).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bookmark this page
 
 
 
 Search 
 the web: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MPPI 
 quotes
 About MPPI
 Policy features
 Policy wording
 Making claims
 Company information 
 
 More MPPI websites 
 
 Back to homepage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgages
 Remortgages
 Loans 
 Credit cards
 Critical 
 illness 
 Life insurance
 - 
 Term life asurance 
 - Mortgage 
 protection
 Income protection
 Dental 
 insurance 
 PMI medical insurance
 Travel 
 insurance 
 
 More subjects... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
