
Financial Planning Centre - PIFC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Area of tax planning to review
 
 
 
Year End Tax Strategy 
15/2/2001 
Winning Moves For Your End Strategy
 
 With the calendar year over, it is time to focus on the next tax 
 year end. The 2000/01 tax year closes on Thursday 5 April. A few 
 weeks earlier, there will be the Budget, seen by many commentators 
 as the last before the next general election.
 
This year, the main areas of tax planning to review are: 
 
 
 Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
 
 The ISA investment limit for 2000/01 is £7,000. This ceiling will 
 remain the same until April 2006, following a change announced in 
 last November's pre-Budget report. Time to act is running out, if 
 you have not yet put the maximum into an ISA for this year. If you 
 have already contributed to an ISA, but not up to the £7,000 limit, 
 you will need to take care because the complex ISA rules could restrict 
 your top-up options. We strongly recommend you seek advice before 
 investing, both to ensure you are making the right investment choice 
 and to check that you are not breaking the ISA rules. 
 
 
 
 Personal Pension Contributions
 The personal pension rules are being drastically revamped from 
 6 April this year (see Radical New Rules for Pension Plans). The 
 changes present both opportunities and threats and make it all the 
 more important that you review your personal pension contributions 
 before the year end.
 
If you are self-employed or you are not a member of an employer's 
 pension scheme and have not made the maximum personal pension contribution 
 in any tax year since 1993/94, the first thing to consider is carry 
 forward relief. This allows you to catch up on contributions you 
 could have made to your personal pension plan in previous tax years 
 and reduce this year's tax bill. 
 
Carry forward is being abolished from 6 April 2001, although it 
 will still be possible to take advantage of it until 31 January 
 2002 if a contribution is carried back under the new rules. This 
 basically means asking the Inland Revenue to treat a contribution 
 as if it had been paid before 6 April 2001. For most people, the 
 replacement for carry forward will be much less beneficial. 
 
If you want to arrange personal pension life cover or top up your 
 existing pension-based insurance, then action before 6 April is 
 also important. The new rules, which take effect from that date, 
 will generally mean the amount of cover you can buy will be substantially 
 reduced. 
 
 
 
 Additional Voluntary Contributions
 Additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) do not benefit from any 
 carry forward or carry back provisions, so if your contribution 
 in any year is not the maximum, there is no way to catch up in future 
 years. The general principle is that you can pay into AVCs as much 
 as 15% of your annual earnings, less whatever compulsory contributions 
 are required by your pension scheme. Taxable fringe benefits, such 
 as a company car or 'free' fuel, count towards the earnings total. 
 From 6 April you may be able to make alternative arrangements to 
 top up your employer's pension scheme. 
 
 
 
 Contracting Out
 If you are contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension 
 Scheme (SERPS) through a personal pension, 5 April marks the deadline 
 for deciding whether to stay out of SERPS for 2000/2001. These days 
 there is no general rule for making this decision, so you will need 
 to take advice. 
 
 
 
 Capital Gains Tax
 
 The reforms to capital gains tax (CGT) of the past few years have 
 created new pitfalls, as well as new ways to cut your tax bill. 
 One general rule remains: use your annual exemption, which could 
 be worth up to £2,880 if you are a higher rate taxpayer. However, 
 if you are disposing of business assets or investments held on 5 
 April 1998, the CGT taper relief rules mean it could be wiser to 
 delay your disposal to gain extra taper relief. For example, for 
 business assets owned on 5 April 1998, taper relief could double 
 overnight from 25% to 50% between 5 April 2001 and 6 April 2001. 
 
 
 
 Inheritance Tax Planning
 This close to an election, the Chancellor is unlikely to start 
 strengthening the inheritance tax (IHT) framework. Nevertheless, 
 as the year end approaches, it is a wise precaution to check that 
 you have not wasted your annual exemptions. 
 
Relevant to: All
 
Click here to enquire
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PIFC are regulated by the
 Financial Services Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
