
	
	
	the watchout advice service
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Privacy Policy
	
	
watchout takes the privacy of its customers seriously and has provided this section to help you understand how it uses and safeguards the personal information you provide on its website.
	
	If you have any questions about how watchout uses your personal information, or any information about you needs updating, or if you have given your permission at any time for us to disclose information about you and you now wish to reverse this decision please send an email to helpdesk@studentwatchout.co.uk
	
	watchout does not use Cookies to store your personal details.
	
	
Collecting and Use of Information
	
	
watchout collects information about you when you buy products, register and send email enquiries. Information such as your name, email address, home and/or term-time address, date of birth, username and password enables watchout not only to liaise with the various insurers whose policies it recommends in order to ensure that they provide you with the products you have requested but also to ensure that the watchout service is as efficient as possible. watchout retains this personal information both electronically and in the form of manual records.
	
	watchout may also process personal information to run competitions and promotions; to ensure that it provides a personalised service and to provide you with information about products that it recommends.
	
	watchout may also use anonymous information (i.e. number of visitors to the site, number of pages looked at by these visitors etc) to help with the strategic development of its site in line with customer preferences.
	
	
Third Parties
	
	
watchout will only disclose information about you to third parties where you have given your permission. All third parties are carefully screened so that only offers which watchout judges to be of genuine relevance or interest to its customers are forwarded to them. watchout understands that you, as a customer, have the right at any time to reverse your decision about being willing to have your personal data passed on to third parties. To do this click here to access the My Account area, and then tick the box requesting that you do not wish to be contacted by third parties.
	
	
Promotions and Special Offers
	
	
watchout may occasionally send you emails and newsletters to inform you of special offers, promotions and the addition of new products. You may opt out of receiving these emails either when registering or at any other time by entering the the My Account area of this site and ticking the box requesting that newsletters and other notifications about special offers and promotions are not sent to you by email. Please note that even when you tick this opt out box, watchout may still need to send you emails to ensure that you receive the products/information you have requested.
	
	
	
	
Security
	
	
All online payment transactions are encrypted for your privacy and security using SSL RC4-128 bit encryption technology. If you have any questions Email security@studentwatchout.co.uk
	
	
	
Refunds
	
 
 If having 
 purchased an insurance policy through our site, you decide that it does 
 not meet your requirements, simply return the policy to us within 7 working 
 days of being issued and, providing that no claim has been made, the premium 
 will be refunded within 30 days. 
 
	
	
Delivery
	
	
The insurance companies featured on the watchout site will endeavour to post your policy documentation within 24 hours.
	
	
	
	
	Disclaimer
	
	The following terms govern the use of the watchout site and by accessing the site you agree to be bound by them:
	
	
	
- This site has been developed to comply with English law and is intended to be accessed in the main by UK residents but also by residents from abroad requiring insurances in the UK. All insurances sold are valid only in the UK except where the policy states otherwise. All visits to this site shall be governed by English law. watchout may change these terms at any time by posting changes online. Your continued usage of the site after changes are posted constitutes your acceptance of these modified terms and conditions.
	
- watchout retains information entered by you on to the site both electronically and in the form of manual records.
	
- No permission to copy, reproduce, modify or download this site (or any part of it) is given, other than a single copy for personal reference.
	
	
- All trade marks used on this site belong to watchout/Summit Insurance Services or the registered proprietor of such trademarks. All rights relating to such trademarks, copyright and other intellectual property rights are reserved by watchout/Summit Insurance Services or the organisation contributing the relevant materials.
	
	
- Any information on this site may vary without notice, although it is up-to-date at the time of posting.
	
	
- Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of information on this site but no guarantee is given and watchout accepts no responsibility or liability as to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained within it. watchout does not warrant that the functions contained in material forming part of this site will be uninterrupted or error free, that defects will be corrected, or that this site or the server that makes it available are free of viruses nor represents the full functionality, accuracy or reliability of the materials. In no event will watchout be liable for any damages including, without limitation, indirect or consequential damages, or any damages whatsoever arising from the use or loss of profits, whether in action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising or in connection with the use of this site.
	
	
- watchout&#146;s recommendations are of a general nature only; and your particular personal circumstances will determine the most suitable product(s) for you. If in any doubt contact watchout at helpdesk@studentwatchout.co.uk for advice as to the suitability of any insurance policy described on this website.
	
	
- The completion of any application form or the making of any payment does not constitute a contract between you and watchout but between you and the administrator/insurer administering or providing the relevant insurance policy, other than for Complete Computer Cover where Summit Insurance Services (the owner of watchout) will administer the procedure. watchout will use all reasonable endeavours to procure a rebate of any premium should this be available.
	
	
- If you do not accept these terms in full you should stop using this site immediately. This does not affect your statutory rights as a consumer. 
	
	
	
	
	
watchout (A Division of Summit Insurance Services Ltd)
	The Pavilion, 3 Broadgate, London, EC2M 2QS
	Fax 0207 614 0055
	
	watchout is a Division of Summit Insurance Services Ltd, registered office as above, registered in England and Wales 2714711
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
