
	
	
	CIS - What is an ISA
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
A CIS ISA is a wrapper which allows you to hold up to three types of investment - completely tax-free.
	
	
	
	The three types of investment are: 
	
	
- stocks and shares
	
- life assurance
	
- cash
	
	
The CIS products in these three categories are:
	
	
- Unit Trusts
	
- Platinum Plus
	
- CIS Deposit Account
	
	
You can invest in these products either in a MAXI ISA or separate MINI ISAs.
	
A MAXI ISA is managed by one ISA manager which can include one or more of the three types of investment.
	OR
	You can have up to three separate MINI ISAs, one for each of the investment types. Each MINI ISA can be managed by different ISA managers.
	
 
The Government 
 has set limits for how much can be invested in a maxi ISA in a tax year. For 
 the 2002/2003 tax year these limits have been set at the following levels.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	MAXI ISA
	You can invest up to £7,000 spread across these investments:
	 
	
	
	MINI ISA
	You can invest up to a total of £7,000 in up to THREE separate MINI ISAs, each holding one type of investment:
	 
	
	
	
	
	up to £3,000 in cash
	 
	
	
	up to £1,000 in life assurance
	 
	
	
	up to £7,000 in stock market investments*
	 
	
	
	up to £3,000 in cash
	 
	
	
	up to £1,000 in life assurance
	 
	
	
	up to £3,000 in stock market investments
	 
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
 In addition to the limits above for MINI and MAXI ISAs, the capital from a maturing TESSA may also be invested up to a maximum of £9,000.
	
* Notes: Please note that the maximum limits shown for stock market investments in a MAXI ISA are on the basis that this is the only investment held within an ISA.
	
The CIS ISA does not meet the CAT (cost, access and terms) standards set by the government.
	
 
Want to know more? 
 Click here to request 
 more information or call our Sales and Service Centre on 08457 46 46 46. Minicom 
 08000 684 244. The lines are open from 8am-8pm weekdays and 8.00am to 5.00pm 
 on Saturdays.
	
These calls will be recorded and may be monitored to assist us with our customer service.
	
	
	
 
 
Please 
 note that legislation governing taxation is liable to change. In particular 
 the favourable tax treatment of ISAs may not be maintained. The information 
 in this website is based on our understanding of the current position.
 
 
 
	
	
The CIS Deposit Account is administered by CIS Policyholder Services Limited as agents of The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. (the "Bank"). Until placed with the Bank cash for the CIS Deposit Account received from a customer may not be covered by a customer compensation scheme.
	
 
This 
 information relates to the products of CIS policyholder services.
	
 
Any 
 advice from CIS representatives as a result of this page will relate only 
 to the products and services available from the members of the CIS marketing 
 group which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority for investment 
 business, and from The Co-operative Bank plc.
	
The CIS marketing group includes:
 Co-operative Insurance Society Limited Registered in England number 3615R 
 - for life assurance and pensions. CIS Unit Managers Limited Registered in 
 England and Wales number 2369965 - for unit trusts. CIS Policyholder Services 
 Limited Registered in England and Wales number 3390839 - for ISAs and investment 
 products bearing the CIS name.
	
The Co-operative Bank p.l.c., registered in England and Wales number 990937, P.O. Box 101, 1 Balloon Street, Manchester M60 4EP
	
