
Privacy - PIFC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
Our commitment
PIFC Group (PIFC) is fully committed to respecting your privacy and to protecting any information you provide to it. PIFC treats both privacy and security as a priority and makes every effort to ensure that all the information provided by you is protected. This policy respects and protects the privacy of all visitors to the Internet site and the parents of all children visiting the Internet site.
This policy explains how PIFC collects information from you and how this information is then used. PIFC hopes that this will remove any concerns you may have about supplying information to us and make visiting the Internet site an exciting and safe experience. 
Please read this Privacy Policy carefully and re-visit this page from time to time to review any changes that may have been made. 
What information is collected and how is it used?
Some parts of the Internet site may require you to supply personal details and you may need to provide any or all of the following:
- your name
- email address
- mailing address
- a password
If you supply the information above in any part of the Internet site you may also have the option of submitting additional information to us. This allows PIFC to have a better understanding of visitors to the Internet site and to tailor any specific promotions or features to individual requirements.
PIFC discloses information provided by you for the purpose of completing any transaction, to process any associated administration, for general statistical purposes and for obtaining any relevant professional advice.
When necessary we may use your mailing address for accounting purposes and to contact you.
PIFC will not provide information about you to third parties unless you specifically allow us to or in special circumstances, such as when we are required to by law. If you agree to allow us to make information about you available to third parties whose products and/or services may be of interest to you then please tick the box provided on that screen.
Data Protection
PIFC is registered in accordance with United Kingdom Data Protection Legislation and will hold and use your personal data strictly in accordance with UK data protection legislation.
If you wish us to remove your information from our database then please contact us. We will remove you from our database within two weeks of receipt of your request. We may need to keep paper copies for regulatory purposes.
If you wish us to change information which we hold about you then please contact us. We will amend our database within two weeks of receipt of your request.
How does PIFC protect visitor information?
PIFC will retain copies of the information provided when you register on the Internet site. PIFC implements a number of measures to ensure the safety of any personal information provided. The information is contained on a server, which is accessible only within PIFC and by a limited number of employees who have authorised access rights to such information.
Whilst we take every precaution to protect the information you supply, unfortunately, no data transmission over the Internet can be guaranteed to be 100% secure. As a result, PIFC makes no warranty as to the security of any information you transmit to us. You transmit information to us at your own risk.
Cookies
Cookies are files that are sent to your browser and stored on your personal computer’s hard disk. Cookies are used by most on-line companies to remind them who you are and to access information about your account which is stored on their computers. PIFC may use cookies to minimise the amount of times you have to type in data; but not to capture personal information or keep track of how often you access the Internet site. You can always disable cookies via your browser. If you choose to disable cookies you may not be able to use certain features on the Internet site and you may be required to enter your details more frequently. Please note that cookies cannot read your hard drive or make information make any information collected by us available to a third party. A cookie can only be read by the organisation that sets it.
PIFC Policy for Children
PIFC realises and understands that children may visit the Internet site. PIFC believes that it is the responsibility of parents to supervise children when on-line and recommend that parental control tools be put in place. No person under the age of 18 will be accepted as a user on the Internet site.
No information collected from anyone under the age of 18 will be used for any purposes.
Consent
By disclosing any personal information to PIFC through this Internet site or via the telephone you consent to the collection and storage of all personal information as set out in this Privacy Policy. If PIFC make any changes to this Privacy Policy these changes will be detailed on this page in order to ensure that you are fully aware of what information is collected, how it is used and under what circumstances, if any, it will be disclosed.
If you have any questions relating to this privacy policy then please contact us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PIFC are regulated by the
 Financial Services Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
