
James Hampden Worldwide Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
(a) Legal Expenses
 
 To pay up to £25,000 in all in respect of legal expenses 
incurred by or on behalf of the Insured Person in the pursuit of 
claims for damages against third parties who have caused bodily 
injury to or illness or death of the Insured Person through incidents 
occurring during the Period of Travel.
 
(b) Personal Liability
 
 To indemnify the Insured Person in respect of his legal liability for 
bodily injury to third parties and/or for damage to their property 
arising from an accident occurring during the Period of Travel up to 
but not exceeding £2,000,000 any one accident or series of 
accidents and in all inclusive of associated legal expenses,
 
 Excluding the following:
 
 (i) Liability for bodily injury to the Insured Person's employees or 
to any member of his family or household.
 
 (ii) Liability for damage to property owned by, or in the care, 
custody or control of the Insured Person or any member of his family 
or household, except for damage to the structure or contents of any 
building or permanently or seasonally sited cabin, caravan or tent 
temporarily hired or let to the Insured Person for the sole purpose 
of his personal occupancy during the Period of Travel.
 
 (iii) Liability arising out of the ownership, possession, custody or 
use of:
 
 (a) any aircraft
 
 (b) any mechanically propelled or horse drawn vehicle, other than 
golf buggies
 
 (c) any caravan or vehicular trailer
 
 (d) any waterborne craft, other than sailboards, surfboards, canoes, 
rowing dinghies, foot or hand-propelled paddle boats and inflatable 
sailing dinghies
 
 (e) any firearm
 
 (f) any animal, other than horses hired for hacking only
 
 (g) any land or building or permanently or seasonally sited property 
of any kind.
 
 (iv) Employer's liability.
 
 (v) Contractual liability.
 
 (vi) Liability arising out of or incidental to the practice of a 
profession or occupation or to the supply of goods or services.
 
 (vii) Liability that is covered under any other insurance, except for 
any excess beyond the amount which would have been covered under such 
other insurance had this Insurance not been in force.
 
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
