
Legal (Read This Please)
Saveinsurance House Insurance Home Insurance Health Insurance Bupa property homeowners and Travel Insurance, and Other Financial Advice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAVEINSURANCE GROUP (YORK)
 
 
 
Please read this information carefully. Access to this
 website is confirmation that you have understood and agree to be
 bound by all of these terms and conditions.
 
The information provided on this website is for the use of
 residents of the United Kingdom only.
 
 
 
Saveinsuance.co.uk is managed by Financial-Adviser.com a subsidiary
 of Saveinsurance Group (York).
 
 Financial-Adviser.com controls and operates this website from
 England and the information delivered via the website is deemed
 to have been delivered in England.
 Financial-Adviser.com makes no representation that the
 material contained herein is appropriate or available for use in
 other locations and is not soliciting any business from any
 location outside the United Kingdom.
 
The Financial-Adviser.com website is not directed to any
 person in any jurisdiction where (by reason of that person's
 nationality, residence or otherwise) the publication or
 availability of the Financial-Adviser.com website is prohibited.
 Persons to whom such restrictions apply must not access the
 Financial-Adviser.com website. If you choose to access this site
 from outside the United Kingdom you are solely responsible for
 compliance with local laws.
 
This website and any transaction effected through it is
 governed by English law and the English courts shall have
 jurisdiction in any legal proceedings.
 
 
 
 The information published on the Financial-Adviser.com website
 is provided as a convenience to visitors and should be used for
 informational purposes only and is subject to change without
 notice. None of the information contained in this website
 constitutes financial or other professional advice in any way.
 If you require additional information, you should contact the
 email address on the frontpage.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While Financial-Adviser.com uses reasonable efforts to ensure
 that the information contained on its website is current and
 accurate at the date of publication, no warranties are made,
 either express or implied, as to reliability, accuracy or
 completeness of the information. Financial-Adviser.com accepts
 no liability for any loss arising directly or indirectly from
 the use of or action taken in reliance on such information.
 These documents should not be copied, reproduced or
 redistributed, in whole or in part.
 
No warranty is given as to the freedom of this website from
 errors, defects, viruses, malicious program or macro. Links from
 this website exist for information only and
 Financial-Adviser.com accepts no responsibility or liability for
 the information contained on any such site. The existence of a
 link to another website does not imply or express endorsement of
 its provider, product or services by Financial-Adviser.com.
 Links to this website are not permitted without the prior
 written consent of Financial-Adviser.com . Please note that when
 you click on any link you will leave the Financial-Adviser.com
 website. Financial-Adviser.com is wholly owned by Peter Hopkins
 ,
 the Business is an authorised Introducer Company to Weston
 Financial Group (LEEDS). Weston Financial Group have no
 responsibility for the content or operation of
 Financial-Adviser.com website.
 
 
 
 All contents of this website, including but not limited to the
 text, graphics, links and sounds, are the copyright of
 Financial-Adviser.com and may not be copied, distributed,
 uploaded, republished, decompiled, disassembled or transmitted
 in any way without the prior, written consent of
 Financial-Adviser.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This theme Copyright © 2000 TWC
 Graphics Design and its respective artists.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
