 Friends Provident
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 For Investors 
 For Customers 
 For IFAs 
 For Employers 
 Site map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Friends Provident internet services for IFAs enables you to find out all the latest news, review our comprehensive product range plus process business online. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For comprehensive information about all our funds and their current prices, including information on how to switch funds, please click on the link below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Information for shareholders, and potential investors. Includes news and financial information, press releases, shareholder services, and annual reports. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited and Friends' Provident Unit 
	Trust Managers Limited are members of the Friends Provident Marketing Group.
	
 
	
	Friends' Provident Unit Trust Managers Limited is also a member of the 
	Investment Management Association.
	
 
	
	 Incorporated companies limited by shares and registered in England. 
	 Registered and Head Office: Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1QA. Telephone 0870 608 3678. 
	 Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited. Registered number 4096141.
	 Friends Provident Unit Trust Managers Limited. Registered number 970641.
	
 
	
	Any business with the above mentioned that arises from the use of this site 
	will be transacted with United Kingdom residents only.
	
 
	
	Friends Provident International is the trading name of Friends Provident 
	Life and Pensions Limited, for business conducted outside the United Kingdom. 
	Member of the Association of International Life Offices.
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Click here Legal Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
Copyright: Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited © 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
