
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance MPPI PPI Quotes Company UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance
 
About MPPI | Why 
 buy MPPI? | State help | Policy 
 benefits
 
What about state help?
 
One of the main reasons for purchasing any sort of protection 
 product is the long-term trend of the reduction in state 
 benefits. For instance, if you fall ill, suffer a serious 
 injury, or become unemployed for any reason, you will not 
 qualify for state help with your mortgage repayments until 
 nine months after you make a claim and then only if you 
 qualify for income support. 
 
Since October 1995 new mortgage borrowers will receive 
 no state help for the first nine months of unemployment 
 or disability. Existing mortgage borrowers receive nothing 
 for the first two months, only 50% for the next four months 
 and then full benefit for mortgages of up to £100,000 provided 
 they qualify for Income Support. The Government themselves 
 estimate that 70% of mortgage borrowers will not get Income 
 Support due to savings, income, or a working spouse or partner. 
 
 
In 1998 alone, the introduction of a new incapacity criteria 
 resulted in 102,000 claimants being turned down for state 
 benefit. An independent doctor (not your own) will carry 
 out your assessment and you must be incapable of doing any 
 work, not just your normal job, to qualify for state benefit. 
 
 
Even if you do qualify, there is a reasonable chance that 
 you will not receive the full amount of your mortgage repayment. 
 As a result of this, the government is trying to work with 
 the Council of Mortgage Lenders to encourage people to take 
 out PPI policies for those first nine months when they won't 
 be able to claim benefits. 
 
And if you are one of the lucky ones who receives a payout, 
 state benefits for a single person often amount to less 
 than £60 per week. Could you manage on that? The typical 
 state benefit for two adults with two children is £96 per 
 week; the maximum is £134 per week. Could you support your 
 family on this? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bookmark this page
 
 
 
 Search 
 the web: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MPPI 
 quotes
 About MPPI
 Policy features
 Policy wording
 Making claims
 Company information 
 
 More MPPI websites 
 
 Back to homepage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgages
 Remortgages
 Loans 
 Credit cards
 Critical 
 illness 
 Life insurance
 - 
 Term life asurance 
 - Mortgage 
 protection
 Income protection
 Dental 
 insurance 
 PMI medical insurance
 Travel 
 insurance 
 
 More subjects... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
