
	
	lloyds.com: In the week's news ... 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
	
	Login 
	 
 
 
	
	 Help 
	 
 
 
	
	 Search 
	 
 
 
	
	 About lloyds.com 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 Market Finder 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	Market Intelligence 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Country Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Industry Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Reference 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	Contact List 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	Homepage: 
	 
	
	Market Intelligence: 
	 
	
	
	Analysis: In the week's news ... 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 In the week's news ... 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	June 10-14: EU plans to hike motor cover, Amlin buys Aioi Europe renewal rights for $27m, PXRE wins $8m in Terra Nova dispute, new Lloyd's chairman named, Nigeria revises rates, 25% of UK insurers 'high risk', US Senate debates federal terrorism cover ... and more.
 
 Click here to request a free e-subscription to this review. 
	
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	 
	
	
	-Legal: EU proposes higher motor cover
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Companies: Amlin, Axa Corporate Solutions
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Companies: RSA, PXRE
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Lloyd's: Outsider takes the helm
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Asia: Combined policy from Tokio Marine
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-UK: Quarter of market 'high risk'
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Africa: Nigeria revises rates
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-US: Senate debates backstop, cyber survey
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Legal: EU proposes higher motor cover 
	 
	
	The European Commission said it wants to increase the minimum compulsory insurance per victim with personal injuries to E1m ($948,000) from E350,000 under the proposed Fifth Motor Insurance Directive. Cover for damaged property would be increased from E100,000 to E500,000 for EU member states. The Commission said the Directive would also make it easier for consumers to get short-term insurance covering cars bought outside their state of residence and stimulate cross border competition in the vehicle market. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Companies: Amlin, Axa Corporate Solutions 
	 
	
	Amlin said its managed Lloyd's syndicate, syndicate 2001, bought the renewal rights to around A£18m ($27m) of commercial insurance business written by the Provinces Divison of Aioi Europe. The deal includes commercial property and casualty, motor fleet and motor trade insurance. 
AM Best downgraded the financial strength ratings for members of Axa Corporate Solutions (ACS) to A from A+. The ratings of Axa Corporate Solutions Insurance Company and Axa Corporate Solutions Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Company, United States, were lowered from A to A-. AM Best said the ratings reflect substantial deterioration in ACS's operating performance in 2001. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Companies: RSA, PXRE 
	 
	
	Royal & SunAlliance announced it is selling its Isle of Man-based offshore life assurance and investment subsidiary, Royal & SunAlliance International Financial Services, to Friends Provident Life and Pensions for A£133m ($196m). The move is part of RSA's programme of disposals intended to release capital for reinvestment in its core operations. Royal & SunAlliance Investment Management Luxembourg SA is also included in the deal. 
PXRE Corporation, the subsidiary of Bermuda-based PXRE Group, was awarded $8.2m plus interest by a US jury at the end of its dispute with Terra Nova Insurance. The dispute concerned PXRE's claims under two insurance policies that had been issued by an agent of Terra Nova.
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Lloyd's: Outsider takes the helm 
	 
	
	Lord Levene of Portsoken was named as the next chairman of Lloyd's of London. He is presently vice-chairman of Deutsche Bank in London and will be the first chairman in Lloyd's history to come from outside the 314-year old market. Levene was lord mayor of the City of London in 1998 and 1999 and has been chief of defence procurement at the UK's Ministry of Defence. He will succeed Sax Riley who is due to retire at the end of 2002 after two years in office. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Asia: Combined policy from Tokio Marine 
	 
	
	Aviva Life Insurance, the joint venture between India's Dabur and the UK's CGNU, said it intends to offer life insurance products through banks in India. Aviva said American Express, ABN Amro and Luxmi Vilas Bank have already agreed to market its products, and it hopes to finalise a deal with Canara Bank soon. The company said it needs the reach of banks to help sell its products to people across India. It has employed 800 agents to sell the products directly.
Tokio Marine & Fire announced it is launching a 'combination policy' which will include life and non-life insurance in one package. Policyholders will pay lower premiums than those with separate life and non-life cover, said the insurer. 
Japan's non-life insurers agreed to use industry-pooled funds to help collapsed Taisei Fire & Marine pay claims after suffering huge losses following the September 11 attacks, reported Japan Times. The funds are collected through the Non-life Insurance Policy Holder's Protection Corporation. Sompo Japan will take on Taisei Fire's policies. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	UK: Quarter of market 'high risk' 
	 
	
	UK insurers are facing a tougher regulatory regime under the proposals being considered by the Financial Services Authority, and 25% of the industry has been placed in 'higher risk categories' according to a report from Fitch. 
The report, entitled Solvency Abuse?: The Changing Face of UK Capital Requirements, analyses the recently released FSA consultative document on the future of capital adequacy calculations in the domestic market. 
Fitch said it broadly supports the new proposals, but believes they should not be implemented until the outcome of EU initiatives such as International Accounting Standards become clearer. However, Andrew Murray, author of the report, said: "The new proposals will send a strong signal to company management that they need to improve their controls or face the wrath of the regulator." 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Africa: Nigeria revises rates 
	 
	
	Nigeria Reinsurance Corporation (NRC) has begun to monitor the rates charged by domestic underwriters to align them with the minimum agreed by the country's industry, reported Vanguard. Risks above N25m ($218,000) in the local market are being surveyed by the Risk Survey Bureau of NRC. The move precedes an 'upward review' of rates in June. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	US: Senate debates backstop, cyber survey 
	 
	
	A potentially lengthy debate on providing a federal insurance backtop for terrorism-related losses began in the US Senate. A bill drafted by the Democrats, S2600 - the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 - will be discussed and possibly amended before a final vote is made on whether to pass it. 
The US insurance regulatory system needs an overhaul - including an optional federal insurance charter - to keep up with a fast-changing market, argued Robert Restrepo, incoming chairman of the American Insurance Association. 
Restrepo said an optional federal charter would help consumers by making the insurance market more efficient and competitive. He added that the "current patchwork" of state regulation imposes costs on insurers and their customers, and makes it harder for the US to get other countries to open their insurance markets. 
US businesses are still underestimating the risks involved in e-commerce, according to a survey of 460 companies by The St Paul. Just one-third of those surveyed indicated their firms are more likely to identify and manage e-risks than they were a year ago, said Bill Rohde, president of Global Technology at the insurer. 
Three out of four companies indicated rely on technology to manage internet risks, and few assess third party liability risks inherent in doing business online. Only 41% said they were covered for intellectual property infringement, 37% reported cover for damage from hackers, online libel or slander (36%) or customer privacy issues (32%). 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	 The information on this page has been compiled in good faith. No representation is made as to its completeness or accuracy. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
	 	
	 
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More from lloyds.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Reputation & corporate governance 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Risk managers' terrorism juggling act 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Weekly worldwide news review: 
 July 1-5 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	New York's insurers must take action 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Weekly worldwide news review: 
 June 24-28 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Aviation: Funding war risk coverage 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	The rarity of rogue trader coverage 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Contact us 
 
 
 
 Terms 
 and Conditions 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 and Security 
	 
 
 
 Site Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © lloyds.com Limited 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
