
Bupa Details
Saveinsurance House Insurance Home Insurance Health Insurance Bupa property homeowners and Travel Insurance, and Other Financial Advice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bupa Policy Details
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discounts Off Premiums for life!*
 
Our most comprehensive private medical scheme
If it’s important to know that you can count on extensive
private medical cover, with a wide range of additional
benefits
-
including the unique BUPA I-health Fund 
loyalty scheme
-
BUPACare is an excellent choice.
 
• 
Cover from the time your GP first refers you to a consultant, right through to specialist hospital and 
after-care treatment. 
 
• 
Cover for treatment at a national network of around
170 BUPA Partnership Hospitals, offering experienced
medical and surgical care in comfortable, well-equipped 
surroundings. This network covers a wide geographical area and features many of the hospitals chosen by the 
majority of our members. 
 
 
• 
The BUPA Health Fund
-
a loyalty scheme which provides
credits that can be used to help pay towards other BUPA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Offer requires no lapse in cover for full
 term. Based Upon occupation / employer details.
 
A checklist of benefits
BUPACare covers you for the cost of specialist treatment of
acute diseases, illnesses and injuries. In general, you will be
covered for the following benefits, either in full or up to
published amounts. Payment of these benefits is described
more fully in the BUPACare Membership Guide, a copy of
which is available on request and will be sent to you when
you join.
Out-patient treatment
consultations and treatment
Therapies, including physiotherapy, speech therapy
and occupational therapy.
complementary medicines
-
acupuncture, chiropractic, osteopathy and homoeopathy
cancer tests, drugs and consultants’ fees for oncology
Day-case and in-patient hospital treatment 
hospital accommodation (category C) 
BUPA Partnership Consultants’ fees, e.g. surgeons,
anaesthetists and physicians
nursing care, drugs and dressings pathology, X-rays and diagnostic tests
MRI and CT scans. Cancer treatment, including radiotherapy and
chemotherapy
parent accommodation if accompanying a child under 12 in hospital
Additional benefits:
cover for private ambulance
cover for post-discharge home nursing
 ash benefit if you have NHS hospital treatment without charge Full details are
available
on request. 
 
CLICK HERE TO ORDER YOUR
 PERSONALISED QUOTE
 
 
 
 
 
This theme Copyright © 2000 TWC
 Graphics Design and its respective artists.
 
 
 
 
 
