
	Scottish Friendly
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	home > ifa centre > products > bonus isa 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
A safer, more powerful way for your client to save 
For 10 years Scottish Friendly has provided tax-free* with profits savings. This heritage, together with our outstanding with profits performance places you in an excellent position to recommend our Bonus ISA to your clients.
That's because the Bonus ISA is a with profits plan insurance ISA. It offers more growth potential than a cash ISA but less risk than a stocks and shares ISA. So for those slightly more risk averse clients it may be the perfect investment.
&#42; Income generated by your ISA will be free from UK income and Capital Gains Tax. In addition, we will be able to reclaim tax credits of 10&#37; on UK dividends until 5.4.04.
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Core features
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Investment Strategy
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Current bonus rates
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Commission and charges
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	How to apply
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Core features 
back to top 
	
	
	 
	 
	The Bonus ISA can be paid monthly from £
30 and/or with a lump sum from £
500 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Maximum investment in any one tax year is £
1,000 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	It is a flexible plan. Your client can stop, start, increase and decrease their premiums at any time (subject to the above limits). 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Withdrawals of a minimum of £
50 can also be made so long as a balance of £
300 remains in the policy 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	There is no lock-in term, although it is designed for medium to long term growth (at least five years). 
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Investment strategy 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Money invested in the Bonus ISA is invested in the unitised ISA With Profits fund. The fund is split as shown below to balance the potential for growth with an element of security.
Your client's money will grow with the addition of bonuses, which are their share of the profits made by the Fund. A final bonus may also be added when your client cashes in their Bonus ISA. Add this to all the bonuses they have accrued over the years and their tax-free Bonus ISA could be a highly profitable investment.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Current bonus rates 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	The bonus rate in force from 1 July 2002 is 5.0%.&#42;
	
&#42;On your investment less initial charge. With profit bonus rates are not guaranteed. 
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Commission & Charges 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	Commission - 3% of each premium paid. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Charges 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	An initial charge of 4% of each contribution applies to each investment in the Bonus ISA. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	A 1% charge for the administration of the Bonus ISA fund is allowed for before bonus rates are declared. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	There is a policy fee of £
2.00 per month for regular savings. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	- 
	If all or part of the investment is withdrawn, a Market Value Adjustment (MVA) may be deducted. Details of the MVA are explained in the Key Features. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How to apply 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
It's important that your client reads the key features of the product they are applying for.
Simply print off the application and send the completed form to us at our Freepost address.
Scottish Friendly Assurance, Freepost, Glasgow G2 4BR
If your client requires more information before applying, you can request a product pack via our online literature request service. This includes further information on their chosen product and an application form.
You will need the Adobe Acrobat Reader to view the application form and key features. If you do not have it you can download it for free from the Adobe website.
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	contact us
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	application form PDF
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	key features PDF
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Register for our Monthly newsletter - Email 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 Go 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
