
About Us
Saveinsurance House Insurance Home Insurance Health Insurance Bupa property homeowners and Travel Insurance, and Other Financial Advice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you for visiting our site
 
We are sure you
 will find these pages both useful and time saving. Our aim is to
 provide you with the facility to buy on-line or by telephone the
 best value insurance products available in the UK. Travel, Home
 and Health insurance can be set up simply and quickly. Using our
 secure 128bit encrypted servers you can buy online in confidence
 or if you prefer telephone our sales consultants who will be
 please to assist you. Saveinsurance.co.uk is part of a suite of
 websites designed to meet your every need in relation to financial
 planning and insurance. 
 
With Saveinsurance you can expect a friendly,
 efficient and professional service from a team of experienced
 advisers (Eighteen years service to the industry).
 
 We are dedicated to providing you with the
 most competitive quote and we offer a variety of flexible payment
 methods.
 
Our high standard of service will remain
 constant throughout the policy term, ensuring that your renewal is
 at an equally competitive price.
 
WE ARE AND WILL REMAIN INDEPENDENT
 SO OUR ADVICE REMAINS IMPARTIAL
 
If you would like to comment about our
 services please contact us 
 
 by clicking
 here.
 
 By accessing any part of this
 website you will be deemed to have read, understood and accepted
 the terms of the legal notice.
 Information on this site does not constitute personalised advice. 
 Always consult a professional Independent Adviser or Company
 Representative before taking any action. Financial-Adviser.com
& Saveinsurance.co.uk (A
 wholly owned subsidiary of CWD) Reserves
 all rights to the content of this site Copyright © 2000
 No reproduction of any kind with out prior consent of the website
 owners. NSPCC
- Registered Charity no 216401This site is designed, owned and managed by
Corporate-website-designers.com
 copyright © 2000.For CWD design solutions please email with your
contact details pahopkins@aol.com. YOUR HOME IS AT
RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP THE REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON
IT. A life insurance policy may be required, written quotations on request.
Registered with the Mortgage Code Register of Intermediaries through 
 Weston Financial Group (Leeds)
SAVEINSURANCE HOME AND TRAVEL POLICIES
 ARE UNDERWRITTEN BY UKI LTD PART OF
 
 Telephone 07949 572648 (UK)
 
 
 
 
 
