
	
RapidInsure - How to Claim
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 Members &nbsp 
 Info 
 Help 
 Press 
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	 
 
 
 How 
 to Buy
 
	
 
	 
	 
	 
RapidInsure.co.uk is committed to providing quality insurance 
 products quickly and effeciently. With RapidInsure your insurance 
 cover begins as soon as the purchase is complete. 
 
How 
 to Buy
 
Here's 
 our simple step-by-step guide to obtaining a quote and buying a 
 policy through RapidInsure: 
 
 
 
- You'll have already logged on to our web site 
 www.rapidinsure.co.uk. 
 
 
 
- Look 
 at the icons at the top of the page. Click on the appropriate icon 
 for the type of insurance you want. 
 
 
Obtaining A Quote 
 
 
 
- Just answer the small number of questions required and 
 click on the Calculate Premium button, alternatively you 
 may be presented with a grid of possible premiums and options; 
 choose the one appropriate to what you require.
 
 
- Your 
 quote will be displayed immediately. 
 
 
Buying Cover 
 
 
 
- If the quote meets your approval, click on the Continue 
 button. Alternatively, if a grid is being displayed, click 
 on the premium price for the insurance you require. You 
 will then go to a page where you will be asked to fill in 
 a few personal details. 
 
- The final step in the process is paying! Make sure you have 
 your credit card to hand, then just key in your credit card 
 details. 
 
- RapidInsure will e-mail your policy documents to you 
 immediately. As soon as you receive your documents you will know 
 you are covered. 
 
- Once you have purchased cover through us, you will 
 automatically become a RapidInsure member, which means you can 
 instantly access your policy details on-line, plus you will 
 qualify for any of the special discounts or offers that we run. 
 Don't worry, we'll keep you up to date on these by e-mail! 
 
 
 
Questions
 
We've 
 tried to anticipate some of the questions you might want to ask, 
 such as: 
 
How 
 long does it take to complete all the details?
 It is our aim that less than three minutes of your time will 
 be spent obtaining cover on-line with RapidInsure.co.uk. 
 
How 
 long have I got to cancel my policy if I change my mind?
 Depending on the policy, up to 14 days. Cooling off periods 
 are subject to terms and conditions defined by the insurance 
 company.
 
What 
 if I want a refund?
 Refunds are made according to individual 
 circumstances and as long as you have not made a claim on the 
 policy. Refunds are subject to the refund conditions of the 
 insurance company holding the policy.
 
How 
 do I renew my policy?
 You will receive an e-mail well in 
 advance of your policy's expiry date. 
 
What 
 happens if I don't receive my documents?
 If you haven't received your documents within 24 hours please 
 contact our helpdesk and we will 
 sort out the problem straight away. We ask you to wait 24 
 hours to ensure that the e-mail has not been delayed on its 
 way to you. If this causes a problem please contact us immediately.
	 
What 
 if I have a complaint?
 If you have a question or complaint, please contact 
 us. We will endeavour to resolve the issue or refer it 
 to the relevant insurer. If you are not satisfied with the 
 way an insurer has dealt with a complaint and you are a private 
 individual, you may ask the Insurance 
 Ombudsman to review your case without affecting your legal 
 rights. 
 
	
 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
 
 
©RapidInsure.co.uk and associates
All visitors to our website are covered by our Terms of Service
