
 
POIS Assurance - The Support you can expect
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 Privacy 
 Statement 
 
 About Us
 
 
 Products & Services
 
 Travel Insurance 
 
 Savings Plans
 
 Children's Plan
 
 Life Assurance 
 
 Mortgages 
 
 Investment
 
 
 Useful Information
 
 Sales Support
 
 Request a Brochure
 
 
 
 
 
 
FREEPHONE
 0800 622417
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years of combined experience
 
POIS Assurance is now part of Family Assurance 
 Friendly Society Limited, and as such brings its members the benefits and 
 security of being part of the UK&#146;s largest tax-exempt friendly society, 
 with over 500,000 members and over £1.5 billion of funds under management, 
 (as at February 2002).
 
This partnership means that we can not only continue 
 to provide our Members with good value protection and profitable savings, 
 but also offer a wider choice of options for their financial planning.
 
 
 
POIS Representatives
 
POIS Assurance employs Introducer Representatives. 
 Introducer Representatives are there to provide information on POIS Assurance 
 products and services. They are NOT authorised to give financial advice on 
 the Society&#146;s products or services or those of any other company.
 
As well as Introducer Representatives we also 
 have a network of Introducers. These are men and women from many different 
 organisations who work on a voluntary basis for the Society, and act as the 
 &#145;front line&#146; contact with our Members in the workplace. Their role 
 is to provide information on the range of products and services and promote 
 the Society and it&#146;s benefits.
 
Over the years these Introducers have been instrumental 
 in helping the Society grow to what it has become today. If you would like 
 to become an Introducer and join in the exciting growth of the Society, please 
 email us at sales@pois.co.uk for further 
 details.
 
 For details of the Introducer Representative in your area, please contact 
 Customer Services on the number below.
 
 
 
We&#146;re here to help
 
Our Customer Services staff can also provide 
 you with product information and will be happy to answer any queries you may 
 have.
 
If you are an existing member with a policy query 
 please have your policy details to hand.
 
Freephone: 0800 
 622 417 
 Lines are open Monday to Friday 9am - 5pm
 
If you would like further information on the 
 latest mortgage deals in the marketplace, please ask for the Mortgage Helpdesk 
 when you call. 
 
 
