
	
	lloyds.com: In the week's news ... 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
	
	Login 
	 
 
 
	
	 Help 
	 
 
 
	
	 Search 
	 
 
 
	
	 About lloyds.com 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 Market Finder 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	Market Intelligence 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Country Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Industry Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Reference 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	Contact List 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	Homepage: 
	 
	
	Market Intelligence: 
	 
	
	
	Analysis: In the week's news ... 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 In the week's news ... 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	June 3-7: Asbestos claim builder appeals for compensation backing, Australia tackles medical indemnity crisis, Axa buys online banking unit, Asian insurers' alliance, ING sells Fortis shares, US reinsurers return to profitable underwriting ... and more.
 
 Click here to request a free e-subscription to this review. 
	
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	 
	
	
	-Legal: Airlines' civil rights suits, asbestos appeal
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Companies: Ace Bermuda, Allianz, Axa
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Companies: Axa Asia Pacific, Crawford, ING 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Companies: Partner Re, The St Paul
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Australia/Asia: Tokio alliance, indemnity relief
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Catastrophes: Colorado wildfire
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Trends: Better prospects for US reinsurers 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Legal: Airlines' civil rights suits, asbestos appeal 
	 
	
	Four major US airlines were hit with lawsuits from civil rights groups that alleged they removed five men from post-September 11 flights because other passengers suspected they were Middle Eastern, reported Reuters. The suits are against Northwest, American, Continental and United Airlines. The American Civil Liberties Union and the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee filed the suits. 
 
UK-owned building firm Cape appealed to shareholders and lenders to support a A£20m ($29m) asbestos-related compensation package it has agreed to pay South African miners. The firm fears that if the payment does not receive backing, it could be ordered to pay more. The deal was reached after a lengthy battle with representatives of 7,500 South Africans who claim they have had asbestos-related diseases. The claimants worked for Cape before 1979. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Companies: Ace Bermuda, Allianz, Axa 
	 
	
	Ace Bermuda and Bermudian firm Freisenbruch-Meyer Group joined forces to create a new domestic insurer - Freisenbruch-Meyer Insurance (FMI). Ace Bermuda is investing a 40% equity holding in the venture, which will write insurance coverage for the Bermuda market. Ace Bermuda will also invest a 40% equity holding in the managing agency Freisenbruch-Meyer Insurance Services (FMISL). FMISL will provide underwriting, claims and administration services for FMIL. 
Allianz Capital Partners said it is purchasing a 79% share in German electrical safety company Bartec Sicherheitstechnik. Technology developed by Bartec is used to protect industrial installations against explosions, radiation and environmental damage. The deal was constructed by HypoVereinsbank.
Axa has agreed 'in principle' to purchase Banque Directe, the online banking arm of BNP Paribas. Dow Jones reported Axa will pay E56.4m ($53.2m) for the unit. The deal should be finalised before the end of the year, and sees France's biggest insurer move into retail banking.
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Companies: Axa Asia Pacific, Crawford, ING 
	 
	
	Axa Asia Pacific Holdings agreed to sell Axa Health Insurance to Macquarie Bank for A$595m ($340m). The sale is expected to close in August 2002 following regulatory approvals. Macquarie will sell the equity to a consortium of UK investors, led by health insurer BUPA, within six months.
Crawford & Company reorganised its corporate structure with a management reshuffle. Jim McGee, the firm's former president of US operations, will be the new managing director of the Business Solutions Group (BSG). The post merges the US and International Business Solutions Group. Jeffery T Bowman, president of international operations, will be responsible for the Executive General Adjusters Group worldwide. Howard Rogers, executive vice president of the BSG, will lead the Claims Management Services business unit. 
ING Group said it would sell its remaining 35.5 million shares in Fortis as part of its programme to realise capital gains. The company reported any gains made will be accounted for as operational profit. ING Investment Banking and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter were appointed as joint book runners for the transaction. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Companies: Partner Re, The St Paul 
	 
	
	Bermuda-based reinsurer Montpelier Re is preparing for an initial public offering and a listing on the Nasdaq. In a filing with US Securities Exchange, the company said it would launch with up to $250m of common shares, although the final size of the offering would not be determined until after the registration statement became effective. Montpelier Re began operations in Bermuda on November 14, 2001.
Partner Re opened an office in Santiago, Chile, to help bolster its market position in Latin America. The new office covers southern Latin America, including Chile, Argentina, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay. It will be headed by Hernan Zilleruelo.
The St Paul agreed to settle all asbestos and other claims arising from its insurance of Western Asbestos Company, which it estimated could amount to a net loss of $380m. The St Paul will make payments of $235m in the second quarter of 2002, and $740m by January 2003. AM Best downgraded The St Paul's financial strength rating to A from A+. The insurer assumed the Western Asbestos claim as part of its 1998 acquisition of USF&G, which insured Western before 1961. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Australia/Asia: Tokio alliance, indemnity relief 
	 
	
	Tokio Marine & Fire Insurance said it signed a 'memorandum of understanding' with the People's Insurance Company of China and South Korea's Samsung Fire & Marine. A proposed business alliance could see the three companies co-operate in marketing, product development, damage assessment and reinsurance. Each company will establish a division to work on the details of the deal by the end of June.
HIH may have been unable to take over FAI Insurance if Goldman Sachs had told FAI's directors that the company was worth just a little of its promoted book value, the HIH Royal Commission heard. Goldman Sachs advised on the HIH bid two weeks after it prepared an internal memo which estimated FAI's true net assets at $20m instead of its book value of $220m. All FAI directors have already testified they were ignorant of the memo's conclusions and would have requested more information if they were aware of them, reported the Melbourne Age. 
Rodney Adler, former CEO of FAI and board member of HIH, denied the acquisition of FAI by HIH led to HIH's collapse when he gave evidence at the enquiry. FAI's chief operating officer said Adler had asked him not to include specifics about a big shortfall in the money the firm had set aside to pay claims when writing a report on FAI. Adler denied the claim. 
Australia's Prime Minister, John Howard, pledged to solve Australia's medical indemnity insurance crisis by announcing a six-month extension to a guarantee for doctors covered by the collapsed medical insurer, United Medical Protection, plus an unspecified levy to cover future claims, reported AAP. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Catastrophes: Colorado wildfire 
	 
	
	Up to 100 homes were destroyed when wildfire swept through 4,400 acres around the Copper Gulch community, south-west of Canon City in Colorado. The fire caused more damage than any other Colorado wildfire on record. Around 1,500 residents were evacuated from around 600 homes in the Deer Mountain Valley when the fire began on June 2. Insurers feared claims could reach extremely high levels. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Trends: Better prospects for US reinsurers 
	 
	
	Reinsurers are returning to profitable underwriting according to first-quarter results collected by the Reinsurance Association of America (RAA). The 30 US reinsurers that participated in the RAA's quarterly survey wrote an increase of 15% in net premiums to $7.68bn from the $6.68bn they wrote in the same quarter a year ago, based on statutory results. 
Alternative markets are expected to comprise nearly 50% of the US commercial insurance market, according to Michael Phillipus, vice president of communications and external affairs of the Risk and Insurance Management Society. 
Phillipus, speaking before the US House Financial Services Capital Markets Subcommittee on regulation and competition in the insurance industry, said "an optional federal insurance charter has the potential to eliminate a significant amount of the costs and time that have driven prices up in the traditional insurance market." 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	 The information on this page has been compiled in good faith. No representation is made as to its completeness or accuracy. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
	 	
	 
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More from lloyds.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Reputation & corporate governance 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Risk managers' terrorism juggling act 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Weekly worldwide news review: 
 July 1-5 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	New York's insurers must take action 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Weekly worldwide news review: 
 June 24-28 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Aviation: Funding war risk coverage 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	The rarity of rogue trader coverage 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Contact us 
 
 
 
 Terms 
 and Conditions 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 and Security 
	 
 
 
 Site Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © lloyds.com Limited 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
