
	
	
	Policy Details
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	THIS CERTIFICATE SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SCHEDULE ATTACHED
	
	THIS IS TO CERTIFY that in accordance with the authorisation granted under contract number PA101 to the Issuing Agent by certain syndicates at Lloyd&#146;s, (hereafter referred to as Underwriters), whose definitive numbers and the proportions underwritten by them, which will be supplied on application, can be ascertained by reference to the said Contract which bears the Seal of Lloyds Policy Signing Office, and in consideration of the payment of the premium specified herein, the said Underwriters are hereby bound, severally and not jointly, their Executors and Administrators, to insure against Bodily Injury in accordance with the Schedule of Benefits.&#148;
	
	Information provided in connection with a proposal made to Harrison-Beaumont (Insurance Brokers) Ltd. shall be incorporated into the contract which will pay the Benefits stated in the Schedule to the Insured (or his legal representatives) to the extent and manner set forth within this Certificate if during the Period of Insurance the Insured sustains Loss of Hand(s) or one or both eyes.
	The Insurance by this Certificate shall be subject to the Definitions Terms Conditions and Exclusions of the Certificate
	The Liability of The Company shall not exceed the Benefits specified in the Schedule
	This Certificate shall not be valid unless it is countersigned by an official of Harrison-Beaumont (Insurance Brokers) Ltd.
	
	All enquiries concerning the issuing of this Certificate and the cover it provides should be addressed to:
	Harrison-Beaumont (Insurance Brokers) Limited, 2 Des Roches Square, Witney, Oxfordshire OX28 4LG.
	Tel: (01993) 700200 Fax: (01993) 700502 Email: milo@hbinsurance.co.uk.
	NOT TO THE UNDERWRITERS
	
	
	
	
DEFINITIONS
	'Bodily Injury&#146; means identifiable physical injury which:-
	(a) is sustained by an Insured Person and
	(b) is caused by an Accident during the Period of Insurance and
	(c) solely and independently of any other cause, except illness directly resulting from, or medical or surgical treatment rendered necessary by such injury, occasions disablement of the Insured Person within twelve months from the date of the Accident.
	&#145;Accident&#148; means a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific event which occurs at an identifiable time and place.
	&#145;Loss of Hand&#146; means permanent loss by physical separation of a hand at or above the wrist and includes permanent, total and irrecoverable loss of use of a hand.
	&#145;Loss of Sight&#146; means permanent, total and irrecoverable loss of sight in one or both eyes.
	
	
	
TERMS
	1. The Benefits payable under this Certificate are in respect of
	i) Permanent and total loss of Sight in one or both eyes
	ii) Permanent total loss of one or both hands
	2. The amount payable in respect of Benefits i) - ii) is shown as Capital Sum in the Schedule
	
	
	
CONDITIONS
	1. The maximum payable under Benefit i & ii) above is £150,000
	2. The insurance provided by this Certificate is limited to residents of the UK and Channel Isles
	3. All reports certificates and information required by The Company in respect of a claim under this Certificate shall be furnished at the expense of the Insured Person and shall be in such form as The Company shall prescribe. The Insured Person shall from time to time submit himself or herself to medical examination at the expense of The Company as may be required in connection with any claim
	4. In the event of any accident occurring which may give rise to a claim under this Certificate the Insured Person must as early as possible place himself or herself under the care of a duly qualified medical practitioner.
	
	
	EXCLUSIONS
	(a) Whilst the Insured Person is engaged or taking part in military, air force or naval service or operations (other than reserve or volunteer training).
	(b) Whilst the Insured Person is engaged or taking part in aeronautics or aviation, other than as a passenger.
	(c) Whilst the Insured Person is engaged or taking part in mountaineering or rock climbing normally involving ropes and/ or guides.
	(d) Whilst the Insured Person is riding or driving in any kind of race.
	(e) Gainful occupational activities of a non-clerical nature
	(f) Directly or indirectly caused or contributed to by the Insured Person&#146;s intentional self-injury, disease or natural cause, suicide or attempted suicide, provoked assault or fighting except in bona fide self-defence or from the Insured Person&#146;s own criminal act, or whilst engaged or taking part in civil commotions or riots of any kind.
	(g) Consequent on war, invasion or civil war except whilst the Insured Person is travelling outside the United Kingdom.
	(h) Occasioned by or occurring while the Insured Person is in a state of insanity temporary or otherwise.
	(i) Arising out of any condition caused by, prolonged by, or aggravated by any psychiatric, mental or nervous disorder of the Insured Person, including anxiety and/or depression.
	(j) Arising out of or consequent upon or contributed to by radioactive contamination.
	
	
	
	
	MAKING A CLAIM
	Any incident which might give rise to a claim must be notified as soon as practicable to:
	Harrison-Beaumont (Insurance Brokers) Ltd, 2 Des Roches Square, Witney, Oxfordshire OX28 4LG. Tel: (01993) 700200
	A Claim Form will be forwarded to you. This should be fully completed and returned with this document together with all original supporting documents
	
	
	
	
	CLAIMS PROCEDURE
	The cover herein is subject to English Law. Any enquiry or complaint you may have regarding your policy, or a claim notified under your policy, may be addressed to Harrison-Beaumont (Insurance Brokers) Ltd.
	
	
	
	
	GENERAL CERTIFICATE CONDITIONS
	1. Interpretation
	This Certificate and Schedule shall be read as one contract and any word or expression to which a specific meaning has been attached shall bear that meaning wherever it appears
	2. Due Observance
	The due observance and fulfilment of the terms and conditions and exceptions of this Certificate in so far as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the Insured shall be a condition precedent to the liability of The Company to make any payment under this Certificate
	3. Notification of Claim
	Written notice must be given to Harrison-Beaumont (Insurance Brokers) Ltd of any bodily injury which may give rise to a claim under this Certificate such notice to be given within one calendar month after the date of injury
	4. Misrepresentation
	If any misrepresentation or concealment shall be made by or on behalf of the Insured in obtaining this Certificate or in support of any claim thereunder this Certificate shall become void and the premium in respect thereof shall be forfeited 
	
	
