
Direct Choice online insurance glass
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome to the Direct Choice Insurance Website
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Windscreen and Windows Glass Insurance
 
 
 
Schedule and Certificate of Insurance
 
 
 
 
Subject to payment of the premium this Insurance has been 
 effected between you (the Insured) and Link Insurance at Lloyd’s (The 
 Underwriters).
 
In respect of the vehicle identified overleaf, Underwriters will 
 insure you against:
 
 
 1) 
 Breakage of windows or windscreen glass
 
 
 
 
 2) 
 Damage to the windscreen which would fail the 
 vehicle in a Department of Transport MOT test. 
 
 
 
 
The insurance is subject to the following conditions:
 
 
 
 
 a) 
 The insurance only applies to the identified 
 vehicle, whilst in your ownership. 
 
 
 b) 
 You must produce the vehicle for inspection at a 
 depot of Nationwide Autoglazing, within fourteen days of the initial 
 deposit. 
 
 
 c) 
 Underwriters decision as to whether or not to 
 provide the insurance will depend upon the inspection of the 
 vehicle, and will be final. In the event that the insurance does not 
 proceed for any reason, the administrative fee will not be refunded. 
 
 
 d) 
 All repairs/replacements will be carried out by 
 Nationwide Autoglazing, which may at its option repair, reinstate or 
 replace windscreen or window glass. 
 
 
 e) 
 This document must be produced, together with proof 
 of identification, when making a claim. All damage likely to result 
 in a claim must be reported as soon as possible, either by 
 presentation of the vehicle at a Nationwide Autoglazing depot or by 
 telephoning the Helpline on 0800 45 85 999. No claims will be 
 considered if reported more than thirty days after the expiry of the 
 policy, whenever the actual damage occurred. 
 
 
 f) 
 Underwriters liability in any insurance year will 
 be limited to £150. 
 
 
 g) 
 A Substitution of vehicles may be permitted, 
 subject to any additional premium, and inspection at a Nationwide 
 Autoglazing depot. If a substitution is not accepted, or if cover is 
 cancelled by the Insured, no refund of premium will be allowed. 
 
 
 h) 
 The policy applies only within England, Wales or 
 Scotland and is subject to English law. 
 
 
 i) 
 Failure to pay the premium will invalidate the 
 insurance. 
 
 
 
 
The insurance is subject to the following Excess:
 
 
 
 
 a) 
 £50 excess. The Insured must pay the first £50 of 
 the cost of any replacement window or windscreen glass. 
 
 
 
Disputes concerning this insurance that cannot be resolved with a 
 Nationwide Autoglazing representative at the Insured’s nearest depot, 
 should be referred to Nationwide Autoglazing customer care department on 
 01277 811814.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Products described on these pages apply to UK mainland 
 applicants only.
 
Copyright Taylor Price & Co. 1998-2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
|
 travel | 
 car |
 motorcycle |
 home |
 liability |
 breakdown |
 vacancies |
 | uninsured |
 partners |
 glass |
 glass policy |
 terms of trading |
 | legal 
 protection policy |
 legal protection 
 | Taylor Price 
 |
 
 
 
 
 
