
James Hampden Freedom Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
1. It is a condition precedent to the attachment of cover in respect 
of each Period of Travel hereunder that such Period of Travel shall 
not have been booked or commenced against medical advice, after receipt of 
a terminal prognosis, or for purpose of obtaining medical treatment. 
Pregnancy and its complications during the final 2 months prior to the 
estimated time of delivery are excluded.
 
2. Cover in respect of each Period of Travel shall commence at the 
time that the Insured Person leaves his home or place of business, 
whichever occurs the later for the purpose of proceeding beyond the 
confines of the United Kingdom, and to terminate at the time that he 
returns to his home or place of business, whichever occurs the 
earlier, from door to door. The trip cancellation cover provided 
under Subsection 2(a) shall commence at the time that the insured 
travel and accommodation bookings are made or at the commencement 
date of the specified Period of Insurance, whichever is the later. 
The United Kingdom shall mean England, Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland.
 
3. Except where the Underwriters' specific prior agreement has been 
obtained no Period of Travel shall be deemed to exceed 31 days in 
duration. If a Period of Travel is not completed within this time 
limit due to circumstances beyond the Insured Person's control, cover 
hereunder will continue without additional premium for up to a 
maximum of 14 days.
 
4. It is understood and agreed that this Policy is extended to 
include Winter Sports subject to the following Clause: Winter sports 
is included for a period of 17 days in any one insurance year but 
competition in major events on snow or ice, freestyle skiing, 
repetitive travel in ski-run helicopters, ski-jumping, ice hockey and 
the use of bob-sleighs and skeletons is excluded. The limit in 
respect of any one pair of skis is £250 except where they are 
over five years old at the time of the insured loss or damage, when 
the Underwriters liability shall not exceed £50 per pair. The 
Underwriters shall not be liable for loss of or damage to hired 
clothing and hired equipment of any kind. The list of insured travel 
documents is extended to include ski-lift passes.
 
5. Provided that the Underwriters' specific prior agreement has been 
obtained to renewal or extension of this Insurance at its expiry 
date, cover hereunder in respect of any Period of Travel in progress 
at such expiry date shall continue until its termination in 
accordance with Conditions 2 and 3 above.
 
6. Subject always to the terms, provisions, conditions and 
exclusions hereof, cover under this Policy shall attach in respect of all 
Periods of Travel commencing during the specified Period of 
Insurance.
 
 
General Provisions and Conditions (2)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
