
 
Critical Illness Learn More
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 learn 
 more | benefits | get 
 a quote 
 
 
 
 
 
Learn More
 
Features and Product 
 Description
 
Top Tips
 
 
- For 
 covering a mortgage which is reducing in amount (repayment mortgage) 
 ask for Mortgage Protection or 'Declining' cover. This is cheaper than 
 level cover as the insured amount declines in line with the mortgage 
 principal being reduced over time. 
 
- Check 
 the cost every couple of years as premiums are adjusted from time to 
 time. Also an aggressive newcomer trying to buy market share may be 
 cheaper than your current provider (even if you are older than when 
 you started the cover). Remember you have no termination costs or losses 
 in swapping companies just as you would when buying car insurance. 
 
- Be 
 wary of the illnesses covered by a contract. Contracts may be cheaper 
 because the cover is not quite so comprehensive. Contracts vary considerably 
 as regards terms and conditions (illnesses covered) so ask about the 
 exclusions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
