
James Hampden Worldwide Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
General Provisions and Conditions (2)
 
7. Any travel and accommodation bookings made during the specified 
Period of Insurance but relating to a Period of Travel planned to 
commence after its expiry date shall be included for cover under the 
trip cancellation provisions of Subsection 2(a) of this Policy during 
the period up to but not beyond the said expiry date. (The 
continuation of cover thereafter will be subject to the Underwriters' 
prior agreement to renewal or extension of this Policy.)
 
8. Each Insured Person and each Period of Travel shall be deemed a 
separate Insurance.
 
9. For female Insured Persons the words he, him and his appearing in 
this Policy shall be deemed to be replaced by she and her.
 
10. All italic wording in this Policy is intended solely for the 
procedural guidance of the Assured/Insured Person(s). Such wording 
does not form part of the contract of insurance and does not confer 
any contractual obligation on Underwriters.
 
11. Except for such times during which War Exclusion (B) shall be 
operative, all cover for bodily injury specified in Sections 1, 2 and 
3 of this Insurance shall include injury attributable to hijack, 
kidnap or other terrorist or criminal act of third parties, and 
exposure resulting from a mishap to any conveyance in which the 
Insured Person is travelling.
 
12. All cover for illness specified in Sections 1 and 2 of this 
Insurance shall include medical complications of pregnancy occurring 
within the period up to but not beyond two months of the estimated 
date of delivery.
 
13. Notice shall be given to the Underwriters as soon as practicable 
of any accident, illness, loss, damage or mishap which causes or may 
cause a claim to be made under this Insurance.
 
14. All claims correspondence and supporting documentation should be 
sent to James Hampden Insurance Brokers Limited who have signed this 
Policy, quoting the Policy Number and the Broker's Reference.
 
15. Claims under this Insurance shall be payable to the Assured named 
herein or, if no Assured is named, to the Insured Person or to his 
legal personal representatives.
 
16. This Insurance shall be governed by English Law.
 
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
