
	
	
Royal & SunAlliance products and services for your employees and members 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 Legal Expenses Insurance as
 an 
 Employee Benefit 
 
 
 
 As 
 a society we are increasingly looking towards litigation to solve 
 our problems. There is little doubt that being involved in a legal 
 battle can prove very stressful, not to mention costly, for those 
 concerned. It follows that this stress can impinge on other areas 
 of a person's life such as family or work.
 
 
As 
 an employer looking for an employee benefit that will set you apart 
 from your competitors, you may wish to consider Legal Expenses Insurance 
 to help take some of the strain should a member of staff become 
 involved in a legal dispute.
 
Legal 
 Expenses Insurance provides funding to pay solicitors' fees and 
 disbursements such as barrister's costs and medical reports, together 
 with advice and support from our experienced staff.
 
We 
 provide a comprehensive service and can help fund your employees 
 in exercising their legal rights in the following areas of litigation: 
 
 
 
- Death 
 and Bodily Injury;
 
- 
 Consumer Contract Disputes;
 
- Neighbour 
 Disputes;
 
- Employment 
 Disputes;
 
- Taxation 
 Disputes.
 
 
The 
 experienced development team will work with you to ensure that your 
 employee benefit package is tailored to the particular needs of 
 your workforce to offer real peace of mind. 
 
In 
 addition to the insurance cover, we offer a range of round-the-clock 
 helplines providing legal advice on any personal matter and/or counselling 
 support on a range of emotional topics. Such immediate support can 
 often help diffuse a situation before it becomes more serious thereby 
 reducing the strain both on the individual and the business.
 
In 
 the event of a dispute, our team of highly-trained claims negotiators 
 will guide your employee through the litigation process, including 
 the recommendation of a suitable solicitor to handle the case. Your 
 employee's case will be assigned to a single claims negotiator who 
 will take responsibility for the claim. They will ensure that your 
 employee is kept informed of the progress of the case and work on 
 their behalf to secure the best possible outcome for the claim.
 
If 
 we can help to resolve the situation quickly by using our own in-house 
 small claims team or external expert mediators, we will always try 
 to do so as this is less stressful for the employee.
 
 
 
To 
 contact us for more information please either:
 
Email: 
 employee.benefits@uk.royalsun.com
 Telephone us on 0208 652 1472 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
 Royal 
 & SunAlliance is one of the trading names of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc No. 93792
Registered in England and Wales at St Mark`s Court, Chart Way, Horsham, West Sussex, RH12 1XL
	 
	
