
 
POIS Assurance - Golden Cover Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 Privacy 
 Statement 
 
 About Us
 
 
 Products & Services
 
 Travel Insurance 
 
 Savings Plans
 
 Children's Plan
 
 Life Assurance 
 
 Mortgages 
 
 Investment
 
 
 Useful Information
 
 Sales Support
 
 Request a Brochure
 
 
 
 
 
 
FREEPHONE
 0800 622417
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Life Assurance with guaranteed 
 acceptance
 
Golden Cover Plan is a low 
 cost, uncomplicated life assurance plan that has been specially designed for 
 people aged 50 to 80 wishing to start or top up their existing life assurance 
 provision. 
 
We guarantee a cash lump sum 
 will be paid on the following:
 
Accidental death:
 If 
 death occurs as a result of an accident, from the start of the policy up to 
 and including age 70, the death benefit will be doubled. After age 70 the 
 guaranteed death benefit will be payable.
 
Death through natural 
 causes:
 Once the policy has been in force for 12 months, 
 the guaranteed death benefit will be payable. If death occurs through natural 
 causes within the first 12 months, all premiums will be refunded.
 
 
We will not ask you to attend 
 a medical examination and there are no health questions to answer, and subject 
 to you signing a simple declaration you are guaranteed to be accepted into 
 the plan. 
 
 
 
Golden Cover Plan
 
 
 
- Available to applicants aged between 51 to 81 next birthday.
 
 
 
- Affordable premiums from just £8 a month.
 
 
 
- No health questions and no medical to attend.
 
 
 
- Accidental death benefit.
 
 
 
- All death benefits will be free of tax.
 
 
 
- Easy to arrange, with a simple application form and weekly 
 deductions from your pay or pension, where available. 
 
 
 
 
Click here 
 to request more information
 
Benefits payable on death will be free of any 
 liability to taxation. The information provided is based upon the Society&#146;s 
 understanding of current legislation. Any changes in legislation and tax practice 
 could affect the benefits under this policy.
 
 
 
