
 
Client Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Client Comments
 "Can I take this opportunity to say how pleased I am with 
 the way in which you have handled this transaction. You have been very 
 helpful and very quick to react. My wife and I will certainly consider 
 putting any future insurance requirements that we may have through your 
 company." - Simon D., Software Consultant
 
 "with regard to your service, I find it excellent. Navigating your website 
 was easy and proved extremely informative. I will certainly use your site 
 in the future and have bookmarked it in my internet favourites. Receiving 
 this reminder was quite unexpected and further demonstrates the first-class 
 customer service level you provide. Yours was one of probably a dozen 
 sites I logged on to with my enquiry but the only one I'll be going back 
 to in the future. Keep up the good work!." - John M., IT Support
 
 "Good ! Best I found." - Ian B., Civil Servant
 
 "An excellent site - well designed, easy to use. Well done!" - Moira F., 
 Deputy Head Teacher
 
 "good site - very easy to use." - Paul J., Charity Fund Raiser
 
 "many thanks, great service .... I shall review and get back to you asap." 
 - Mike J., Accountant
 
 "I am impressed by the speed of your service." - Tony M., Director
 
 "I found your service to be interesting and informative and will use your 
 information to judge what people try to sell me!" - R. King, Unknown
 
 "I found the whole process very satisfactory and quotes highly competitive." 
 - Patrick P-G, Unknown
 
 "Your web pages are informative and well designed. The returned information 
 was used for comparison purposes. I would turn to AssureNet at a later 
 date if I intended to amend or change my life assurance. Thank you for 
 your quick response." - Bob M., Unknown
 
 "Thank you for your follow-up e-mail. I was very happy with your service 
 and would be prepared to recommend it to others" - AGR Hooks, Unknown
 
 "Your site on the internet is a very rapid and efficient way of obtaining 
 quotes and sorting out which product - at which price - suits one's requirements." 
 - Ernest C., Medical Physicist 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
