
 
 
	
 
 
RoyalSunAlliance - Virtual Media Centre
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	DRIVING ABROAD? MAKE SURE YOU'RE COVERED BUT NOT IN CONFUSION
	 
	
	
	
	
	5th July 2000 - 
	 
	
	
	
	
	As the school holidays approach, thousands of families will start packing up the car to set off on their annual holiday abroad. The luggage is securely tied to the roof-rack, the milk has been cancelled and the passport and currency are safe in the body belt. You’re prepared and ready to go… or are you? 
Recent research by leading motor insurer, Royal & SunAlliance shows that while we may have everything under control before we set off, Britons aren’t as prepared for the drive ahead as they think. More than one in four (26%) Britons feel apprehensive, confused, un-informed and frightened when driving abroad. 
Despite these anxieties it seems we’re still keen to hit the road, in 1998 *8.2 million Britons took private vehicles abroad, an increase of 8.5% from the previous year, while an estimated **750,000 people are expected to go on a fly-drive holiday this year. 
The confusion starts with speed limits and roundabouts. Alarmingly, over half (53%) of those surveyed did not know the speed in miles per hour if they saw a 50kmh sign and a third (37%) did not know who has priority on roundabouts in Europe, one of the most elementary road manoeuvres. 
These figures are supported by Royal & SunAlliance’s Foreign Claims Manager, Gordon Young, who says the department handles between 1,700 - 2,000 overseas claims each year. He comments: "Most of the claims we handle are caused by driving on the wrong side of the road, confusion as to who has right of way on roundabouts and not understanding foreign road signs. We also recognise that drivers will try to cover longer distances in the shortest possible time and as a result don’t take breaks when perhaps they ought to. This results in tiredness which can contribute to general confusion.” 
Gordon went on to say: "It’s important to prepare thoroughly before driving abroad, especially if you’re apprehensive about the country you’re visiting. This doesn’t only include making sure that you’re fully insured, but that you also understand the rules and regulations of the country in which you’re driving.” 
Those surveyed had driven in over 61 different countries, with 80% having driven in France, by far the most popular, followed by Spain (49%). Italy was cited by almost a quarter (23%) of those interviewed as the most dangerous country to drive in. 
For members of the public who are becoming bored with package holidays and are opting for a more independent self drive holiday, Royal & SunAlliance, with help from the AA, have come up with ten top tips for driving abroad: 
1. Check your policy to ensure you have full insurance cover for driving abroad. A green card is no longer needed in EU countries, if you’re travelling further afield, contact your insurer at least two weeks before. A typical cost for recovery from southern Spain back to the UK is £2,000 and £60 for a tow off a French motorway on a Sunday. 
2. Before embarking on your travels make sure you have the following documentation: Driving Licence, Vehicle Registration Document, Passport, plus travel and motor Insurance Documents. 
3. Fit your car with headlamp converters to ensure you don’t dazzle oncoming traffic. 
4. Check the legal requirements for driving in countries you intend to visit. For example in France the minimum age for drivers is 18 years and children under 10 can’t travel as a front seat passenger. Whilst travelling in a rear seat, children under 10, must use a restraint system appropriate for the child’s size and weight. The AA can provide information on individual requirements. 
5. In some European countries you must carry a Red Warning Triangle in case of breakdown, but it’s advisable to do so in any country as it acts as a warning to approaching traffic that there has been an accident or breakdown ahead. 
6. Take an International Driving Permit, although not legally required it’s instantly recognised in most countries. It’s available by post from the AA. 
7. The AA recommends that you take the following equipment: Torch, Toolkit and Jack, First Aid kit, Fire Extinguisher, Tow Rope and Spare Bulbs when travelling in Europe. If your car takes unleaded petrol it’s advisable to learn what this is in the language of the country your visiting. Here’s a few to get you started: French: 	essence sans plomb Spanish:	gasolina sin plomo German: 	unverbleiter treibstoff 
8. Make sure your car has been fully serviced before you embark on your trip. 
9. Most road signs follow an international pattern but unless you speak the language of the country you visit it’s advisable to brush up on some signs. Would you know the following? 
Chaussee deformee (France): Uneven road surface Sens Unique (France):	 One Way Doorgaand verkeer gestremd (Netherlands): No throughway 
10. Remember tiredness can kill! Plan your route well, know where the service stations are and don’t undertake long journeys without regular stops. 	 - ends - 
Notes to editors: *Source: The Office of National Statistics ** Source: Mintel 
Enquiries: Gordon Young 	Suzanne Sullivan Foreign Claims Manager 	PR Adviser Royal & SunAlliance 	Royal & SunAlliance Tel: 0870 600 2900	Tel: 01403 231 273 
Email: gordon.young@rsa17.royalsun.com	Email:suzanne.sullivan@uk.royalsun.com 
 
	 
	
	
	
	Back to News Headlines
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
