
CETA News Story
Title: CETA CELEBRATES WRITING OVER £1 MILLION OF BUSINESS ON | Release Date: 19/09/2001
While the financial trade press has widely covered the recent demise of i2i-link - a proposed high profile B2B general insurance portal - CETA, the UK’s leading general insurance network, is celebrating the success of its own leading edge Internet quotation and trading system - CETA PReMIUM. During its first year over £1 million of premium has been generated through the portal.
Launched in November 2000, CETA PReMIUM is available free of charge to any intermediary that becomes a member of CETA’s network. At the present time over 280 intermediaries’ web-sites are linked to the portal. Analysis of the business conducted to-date has identified that 90% is generated outside normal office hours - thereby extending an advisor’s marketing ‘reach’ - both in terms of geography and accessibility. 
Many insurance web-sites act simply as lead generators requiring the client to provide details and then wait for a fax or telephone quote. CETA PReMIUM, however, is an advanced software solution that has been specifically designed to allow brokers to extend their existing on-line presence and provide a better service to their clients, both within and outside normal office hours.
CETA’s software enables clients to obtain quotes, read the details of all products, fill in a proposal and pay on-line. Any sales/commission generated through the portal are attributed directly to a member’s account. While each site is branded in the member’s name and corporate identity, customers are in fact linked to CETA’s portal. 
Products currently available include household, mortgage safeguard, travel and pet insurance. In addition, CETA plans to extend the product range to include shop, office, liability and caravan cover shortly. Policies are underwritten by AIG, AXA, Cornhill, Ecclesiastical, Folgate, Groupama, IGI, Norwich Union, Ocaso and Zurich. All administration, which is compliant with GISC standards, is handled directly by CETA. Members are automatically notified of all business written.
 
‘The decision to abandon the development of i2i-link demonstrates how technologically difficult it is to establish an effective Internet quotation and administration portal’ commented David Quick, CETA’s Managing Director. ‘We are delighted that CETA PReMIUM has proven itself. The technology works and the feedback we are receiving from our members clearly shows that it is allowing them to write more business with a higher margin’.
David Quick added ‘It is projected that 30% of all general insurance products will be sold over the Internet within the next 5 years. If intermediaries do not have their own on-line presence it’s likely they will be losing a lot of business. Establishing a web site is not difficult - using our software it takes around two hours to get an effective presence up and running. Customers are changing the way they want to buy insurance products and it is important that intermediaries recognise this and adapt’.
Brokers and financial advisors interested in knowing more about CETA PReMIUM can see a working demonstration at www.cetapremium.com/demo
-ENDS-
Photography / Image: A screen grab of the CETA PReMIUM portal is available and can be sent to you on request.
Journalists requiring further information, please contact:
Stephen Grundy or Josh Cooper
Proteus Public Relations Limited	Tel:	01295 279626
