
 
Cash Back
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 premium 
 watch | cash back 
 
 
 
 
 Cash Back 
 
AssureNet UK offers a refund of 25% of the initial 
 commission on any policy you buy. The refund takes the form of either 
 a built in premium reduction (where provider allows) or a 'cash back' 
 of the initial commision which is paid direct to your bank account over 
 24 months. All quotes, both express and full search, are based on 
 this.
 
 The refund will be paid by a standing order in equal instalments provided 
 that the policy is still in force at the time that the relevant instalment 
 is due. Cash backs are paid one month in arrear and with the same 
 frequency as the premium is paid. The gross commission and the refund 
 is notified to clients in advance at the time they receive an illustration.
 Example: A policy attracting a monthly premium of £30, 
 paying a total commission of £360, will result in a total commission rebate 
 of £90 over 24 monthly instalments of £3.75 beginning one month after the 
 first premium is received. 
 
Note: If you have used the Execution Only service, 
 the fixed fee will apply.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
