
Direct Choice Insurance UK Car Insurance, Motorcycle, Home, Travel, Liability, Vehicle Breakdown Cover
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UK Car Insurance, UK Motorcycle 
 Insurance, UK Home Insurance, Travel Insurance, Liability Insurance, Vehicle 
 Breakdown Insurance, Van Insurance.
 
Instant online insurance quotes, generates 3 "best" quotes
 Choose the best insurance quote for you.
 Budget - monthly payments available
 Buy your insurance online
 
 
Secure site, protected by 128-bit 
 Global SSL. All data transmitted is encrypted, making it impossible for 
 anyone else on the Internet to intercept and read your insurance details and communications.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ENTER THE SECURE SITE 
 
 
 
Please
 
 login to access any previous insurance quotes
 
Taylor Price and Co were founded in 1974 and were pioneers in the field of 
direct insurance sales, being one of the first direct insurance providers in the 
country. Services including UK car insurance, motorcycle insurance, home insurance, travel 
insurance. From the start, we have invested heavily in staff training and 
technology, to ensure competitive car insurance and motorcycle insurance for UK 
residents. We use one of the best computerised insurance administration systems 
in the country (from Cheshire Data Systems Ltd) and this is backed up with a 
sophisticated call centre system from Mitel to ensure all enquiries are promptly 
handled, together with an advanced voice recording system from Eyretel, which 
has largely allowed us to dispense with documentation, speeding up and 
simplifying the process of buying insurance, helping deliver cheap car insurance 
and motorcycle insurance especially for experienced drivers.
We pride ourselves on the care we take of our customers. We ensure that all 
quotations are fully explained at the time they are given, and only use 
insurers with a first class reputation for claim handling.
Why Direct Choice?
After all, they ask a lot of questions! Yes, we do. Some people don’t 
- they ask a few questions and then, if you don’t fit, they 
don’t bother. We care about our customers and want to ensure that you get the 
right policy, whether its your car insurance, motorcycle insurance, home 
insurance, travel or liability insurance. If it means spending an extra few minutes on-line - we think 
you’ll find it’s worth it in the end!
But I’ve never heard of them! Don’t worry. We have been trading for 
more than 25 years, and more than a million people have come to us for their 
insurance. We are one of the most efficient insurance providers in the industry 
and grow larger every day.
But aren’t middlemen more expensive? It depends who the middleman is.
 
- We take more business off so-called "direct” insurers than they take from 
 us. 
 
- We are totally independent of any insurance company. This means that when 
 you contact us, you can be assured of impartial advice in your best interests.
 
 
 
- One call or visit to our site for a quotation means that we can find you 
 the best policy that suits your needs both in terms of coverage and price. 
 Contrast this with a direct insurer, who will only be able to advise you on 
 their own product and only provide you with one quotation 
 
- If you have a problem, we're here to help. If you have a problem with a 
 direct insurer, you're on your own. 
It's true that you can sometimes save money by buying direct, but by no means 
always. Are you totally confident that you can handle your own insurance 
affairs, whether it's in arranging a policy, understanding the way your 
insurance policy works, or dealing with a claim? If the answer to this question 
is anything other than a resounding "yes", we believe you'd be better off 
talking to us. Even if you do feel that you may be able to handle all your 
insurance on your own, we might well be able to save you money anyway
How? Well, if you have ever been involved in an argument with an 
Insurer over a claim, you will know how awkward they can get. With us, you get a 
team of experienced insurance negotiators dealing with your claims, plus you get 
the clout that only a major purchaser can bring to bear. Remember our slogan -"We 
buy more insurance so we can sell it to you cheaper” - we also buy more 
insurance, so we can help you more.
 
 
 
Products described on these pages apply to UK mainland 
 applicants only.
 
Copyright Taylor Price & 
 Co. 1998-2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
|
 travel |
 car |
 motorcycle |
 home |
 liability |
 popular UK Insurance search terms 
 | 
 |
 vacancies| uninsured |
 partners |
 glass |
 glass policy |
 terms of trading |
 |
 breakdown| legal 
 protection policy |
 legal protection 
 | Taylor Price 
 |
 
 
 
 
