
	
	lloyds.com: Australia 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
	
	Login 
	 
 
 
	
	 Help 
	 
 
 
	
	 Search 
	 
 
 
	
	 About lloyds.com 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 Market Finder 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Market Intelligence 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	Country Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Industry Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Reference 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	Contact List 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	Homepage: 
	 
	
	
	Country Briefings: Australia
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Australia 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	 
	
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	 
	
	
	-Overview
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Legislation
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Regulation
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Taxation
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Key risks and compulsory insurance
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	-Useful information
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Overview 
	 
	
	
Australia is the world's eleventh largest insurance market. Total premium income for 2000 was $35,739m equivalent to 1.46% of the world market. Non - life business accounted for $12,798m. Driven by globalisation the convergence of financial services the federal government's commitment to financial services reform, Australia is developing into a financial services centre for the Asia-Pacific region.
However, the Australian insurance market is experiencing a period of considerable upheaval. The recent collapse of insurer HIH has been described as the most significant crisis in the industry for some decades, but was one of several failed insurers in Australia during the last 12 months. 
The enquiry into the collapse of HIH started December 3, 2001. The Royal Commission will examine whether decisions or actions of directors, officers or associated advisers contributed to the failure or were involved in any undesirable corporate governance practices. It will also examine the adequacy of arrangements for the regulation and prudential supervision of general insurance at Commonwealth, state and territory level. A report and recommendations on whether changes should be made to the regulatory system are expected by June 30, 2002. 
Some changes to the regulatory environment can be expected and debate about who should take on the policyholders caught out by HIH's collapse. The insurance industry may have to make a significant contribution and the New South Wales state government has already passed legislation which will impose a levy on all general insurers to be paid to the Office of State Revenue. The ultimate objective is to make funds available to assist in the claims settlement process for former HIH policyholders. 
According to the legislation, insurers are expressly precluded from passing on the increase to policyholders in the form of higher premiums although this issue is being challenged by the Insurance Council of Australia on behalf of its members.
Meanwhile - moves to strengthen solvency margins are underway. It is likely that these changes will be phased in over a few years to give insurers time to comply. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Legislation 
	 
	
	
The Australian non-life insurance industry is governed by the following federal government laws and their attendant regulations and amendments:
- Marine Insurance Act 1909
- Insurance Act 1973
- Trade Practices Act 1974
- Insurance (Agents and Brokers) Act 1984
- Insurance Contracts Act 1984
- Insurance and Superannuation Commissioner Act 1987
- Insurance Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1991
- Financial Law Amendment Act 1997
- Insurance Laws Amendment Act 1998.
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Regulation 
	 
	
	
Regulatory reform
Almost all of the 155 recommendations made by the 1997 Financial Systems Inquiry (Wallis Inquiry) were adopted by the federal government. They were implemented as the current framework for Commonwealth regulation in July 1998. Among the key elements of the reforms were:
To implement a new regulatory structure based on three agencies which assumed the responsibilities of the Insurance and Superannuation Commission (ISC);
 
To develop separate consumer and prudential legislation;
 
To privatise the Housing Loan Insurance Corporation; and
 
To create a single channel for consumer complaints.
Further reform can be expected with the conclusion of the HIH Royal Commission.
Regulatory bodies
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA)
www.apra.gov.au
APRA is responsible for the licensing and prudential supervision of insurance companies and other financial services organisations, including banks, building societies and superannuation funds.
It administers the Insurance Act 1973 and the Life Insurance Act 1995. In addition, all of the insurance legislation, regulation and guidelines formerly administered by the ISC have been transferred to APRA. Product disclosure standards, customer complaints and the licensing of agents and brokers are not within the remit of APRA. They are part of the responsibilities of the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC).
One of APRA's current priorities is a review of all existing policies with the aim of harmonising prudential requirements among all deposit-taking institutions. In February 2002, APRA finalised the new Prudential Standards for general insurance companies in Australia. The standards are scheduled to come into force on July 1 2002, in conjunction with amendments to the Insurance Act 1973, which were passed by Parliament late 2001. 
Six new Prudential Standards have been released: 
- GPS 110 Capital Adequacy 
- GPS 120 Assets in Australia 
- GPS 210 Liability Valuation 
- GPS 220 Risk Management 
- GPS 230 Reinsurance 
- GPS 410 Transfer and Amalgamation of 
 Insurance Business 
The organisation also plans to develop new guidelines including the regulatory requirements for conglomerate financial groups headed by a non-operating holding company.
Conglomerate related prudential standards should be finalised in the first half of 2002, with implementation by the end of the year. There will be a three-year transition period for all authorised deposit-taking institutions that need to adjust their capital structures.
Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC)
www.asic.gov.au 
ASIC has complete responsibility for market integrity and consumer protection functions across the financial services sector.
Reserve Bank of Australia
The Australian central bank is responsible for monetary policy, overall financial system stability and supervision of the payments system.
General Insurance Code of Practice
Issued by the Insurance Council of Australia and now administered by ASIC, the main requirements of this self-regulatory code are:
The establishment of the Internal Disputes Resolution (IDR) process;
 
The agreement to submit to the decisions of the claims review panel; 
Plain language wordings; 
The training of agents; 
Efficient administration of claims; and that
 
Underwriters are responsible for adherence to the code by their agents (coverholders).
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Taxation 
	 
	
	
Insurance protection tax
The State Revenue Office of New South Wales (NSW) apportion a set amount between insurers according to their share of the total of NSW premiums for the preceding year. Total amount of tax to be collected is A$65m. The estimated cost is around 1% of premium income. Tax is only payable on premiums covering property in NSW. The insurer is responsible for payment. Tax is deducted from gross premiums.
Income tax
The law relating to the assessment of general insurance companies is contained within the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 and the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (known as the 1936 Tax Act and 1997 Tax Act, respectively). 
Tax is payable on the profits of general insurance companies at 30% (as from July 1 2001). General guidelines on the appropriate taxation treatment of certain items specific to general insurers have been issued by the Australian Taxation Office and are contained within Income Tax Ruling IT2663, though they are not binding. 
The taxation of reinsurance companies is dealt with by Income Tax Ruling TR95/5, which is binding. Foreign insurers pay tax on an assumed profit of 10%. Tax is therefore payable at 30% of 10%, effectively 3.0% gross. 
Stamp duty
Brokers arrange for the payment of stamp duty to the appropriate state fiscal authority. Where no Australian broker is involved, the relevant overseas broker or underwriter must ensure that the client pays the duty. The level of stamp duty varies between states.
Fire brigade charges
Underwriters fund the payment of the fire brigade charges by adding fire services levies to premiums charged to insureds, at rates recommended by the Insurance Council of Australia. Fire services levies exist in the following jurisdictions:
- New South Wales 
- South Australia 
- Victoria 
- Western Australia 
- Tasmania
Agents and brokers
The Tax Act does not make provision for the taxation of insurance agents or brokers. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Key risks and compulsory insurance 
	 
	
	
Premiums by line of business for 1999 (US$m)
- Property - 2,419
- Motor - 4,397.6
- Workmen's compensation and employers liability - 452.1
- Liability - 1,002.4
- Surety, bonds and credit - 241.6
- Miscellaneous - 4,566
- Marine, aviation and transit - 301.3
Compulsory general insurance
- Third-party motor - bodily injury liability.
- Property damage is not compulsory.
- Insurance premium tax on auto policies decreased to 11.5% from 12.5% on May 1 2000.
- Any licensed driver who has the insured's permission is covered and the insured is also covered to drive a substitute vehicle.
- Professional indemnity for certain professions, including registered insurance brokers.
- Workers' compensation is governed by separate acts for each territory or state; benefits vary considerably. All employees are insured and medical expenses and occupational disease are covered.
- Aviation passenger liability.
Natural hazards
Bushfires, floods, windstorms, cyclones, earthquake and hail.
A $35.8m bill was expected from the New South Wales bushfires that began on Christmas Day 2001.
Following the bushfires an NRMA survey found that one in six Australians do not have building and contents insurance. More than 400,000 homeowners and 860,000 people who rent homes do not have adequate home insurance. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Useful information 
	 
	
	
Non-admitted insurance
Brokers must obtain written permission from the insured to place business with an unauthorised foreign insurer and the insured is liable for a punitive tax.
Reinsurance
There are no restrictions on the placement of reinsurance business with foreign companies, although there is a 3.3 per cent tax on reinsurance ceded offshore. Local reinsurers must be authorised under the Insurance Act 1973.
Policy issues
The policy currency is in Australian dollar (A$), but US$ maybe used for liability insurance. The policy language is English.
Relevant associations
Insurance Council of Australia
www.ica.com.au
Australian Insurance Association (AIA)
The Association of Risk and Insurance Managers of Australasia (ARIMA)
www.arima.com.au
Australian Insurance Law Association (AILA)
www.aila.com.au
National Insurance Brokers Association (NIBA) (Head Office)
Level 18
111 Pacific Highway
 
North Sydney
 
NSW, 2060
Australia.
Tel: +61 2 9964 9400
or 1800 252 558
Fax: +61 2 9964 9332
emailniba@niba.com.au
www.niba.com.au
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	Back to top 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
 
 
	 	
	 
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More from lloyds.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	APRA: Time for a regulatory revamp 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Australia's public liability crunch 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Risk systems: Predictive intelligence 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Australasian risk management truths 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Contractors' all risks: Hard rates ahead 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	Australia: An opportunity for change 
	
	 
	 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
 
	 
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Contact us 
 
 
 
 Terms 
 and Conditions 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 and Security 
	 
 
 
 Site Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © lloyds.com Limited 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
