
	
	
	the watchout advice service
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
'Students 
 Prime Burglary Target' , 'Holiday Chancers': Sound worrying? 
 Read on to see why you should take out Belongings 
 and Travel cover and then have 
 a look at recent burglary statistics 
 across the UK to see how your area compares, and a list of inexpensive, 
 common-sense security tips 
 from a Crime Prevention Officer.. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 From the Mail on Sunday Financial Section 
 
 
 Millions of holidaymakers are taking a big risk by failing to insure for 
 last-minute trips abroad, a new survey shows.
 
The research by NOP 
 for American Express suggests that 21 million British holidaymakers are 
 likely to book last-minute holidays abroad this year, and seven million 
 of them will travel without cover.
 
Sarah Harper, head 
 of insurance services at American Express, warns against travelling without 
 insurance. She says: &#145;People booking last-minute holidays may be 
 eager to save money, but often overlook the fact that savings reaped by 
 booking late can be wasted if there are problems and they don&#146;t have 
 the right cover.
 
&#145;Lost luggage 
 or an accident can prove costly without insurance.&#146;
 
American Express reckons 
 that a broken leg in Spain would cost more than £4,000 in medical 
 bills and an attack of food poisoning in France about £200.
 
The firm argues that 
 annual insurance cover is best for spontaneous travellers because it removes 
 the problem of organising a policy at the last minute and saves money.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alan Travis, Home 
 Affairs Editor
 From The 
 Guardian, Thursday 
 October 21, 1999
 
Students who arrive 
 at college loaded down with the latest electronic equipment and little 
 local street wisdom are now the prime target for career burglars, according 
 to new home office research published yesterday. 
 
The study on burglary 
 prevention said that neighbourhoods dominated by students living in privately 
 rented flats and houses attracted criminals from across cities "like 
 bees to a honeypot", drawn by the area's known poor security, poor 
 guardianship and rich pickings. 
 
The research, which 
 was carried out as part of the government's crime reduction programme, 
 said that declining seaside towns and towns where the local property market 
 had collapsed, particulary in the north-west and north-east of England, 
 also suffered much higher than average burglary rates.
 
Students were now 
 among those most at risk because many lived in poorer and cheaper parts 
 of cities in privately rented property which was left empty for many hours 
 each day.
 
"They tend to 
 arrive at college or university with a supply of the most popular goods 
 taken in burglaries (readily portable, high value electronic equipment) 
 and little local street wisdom.
 
"It should be 
 no surprise that students experience high rates of burglary."
 
Part of the problem 
 was the weak security inside many privately rented houses which had been 
 divided up to house several tenants.
 
The "twilight 
 world of bedsit land" in seaside towns was also emerging as a national 
 burglary headache. Many resorts which had lost their tourist trade and 
 fallen on hard times now had burglary rates twice the national average. 
 
 
In some northern towns 
 where housing demand had slumped and prices had fallen sharply, commercial 
 landlords rapidly bought up cheap property and moved in housing benefit 
 tenants, sparking the spiral of decline and high crime rates.
 
"Radburn estates" 
 and "neighbourhoods with rookeries" - areas with well-established 
 networks of criminal families - continued to be a problem. The Radburn 
 layout of council estates, which were still being built, provided groups 
 of houses or flats approached by networks of footpaths separated by grassed 
 ares and with communal parking areas. The design "continues to yield 
 its burglary harvest" as the lack of natural surveillance, ease of 
 entry and ease of escape, contributed to high burglary rates.
	
Click 
 Here for an overview of Burglary levels across the UK
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
