
car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Choose...
Motor
Home
Bike
Travel
Health
 
 
 
 
 Insurance Products 
 
 
Motor 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Home 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Travel 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
Vehicle 
 
Business 
 
Taxi 
 
 
 
Motorbike 
 
Quick Quote 
 
 
 
Health 
 
Life Term 
 
Critical Illness 
 
 
 
Other Services 
 
Competition 
 
News 
 
Recommended Buys 
 
Links 
 
Insurance Fun 
 
About Us 
 
 
 
 
 
The Insurance Centre Affiliate Program 
What is an Affiliate Program? 
 
An affiliate program is a revenue sharing 'strategy' used by many sites on the web to generate revenue.
It costs nothing to join, but every time you refer a paying customer to us you take a share of the profit. The more prominent the link you give us, the more users will buy and the more money will be generated for you. 
How much will you pay me? 
 
For every user that comes through to us from your website and completes a motor insurace quote will receive £0.35 per quote. For an online contract click here.
Alternatively if you would like the option of being paid £10.00 per policy sold, then click here.
Through the popularity of our system one of our larger affiliates made over £13,000 last month alone. 
How and when do you pay me? 
 
We send you a cheque in sterling 30 days after the end of the referred month. 
How do I know you will pay out? 
 
We ask you to sign an agreement that guarantees you will be paid all commissions resulting from the sale of a policy. We also ensure all sales are tracked by the unique identifier we give you to build into the link. This ensures no sale coming from your website will be missed. 
How do I know I'm suitable? 
 
Most sites will be suitable to join. Even a small site with few users has the ability to grow and generate lots of revenue for themselves.
Sites that we will not accept - Sites that actively discriminate or promote discrimination based on race, gender, nationality, religion, sexual orientation or physical disability. Sites that show or actively promote pornography, violence, hatred or illegality. Sites that infringe on copyright or intellectual property rights. 
What now? 
 
After you have clicked on the desired contract (above), entered your details and faxed it to 0709 2516002 or emailed it to tracy@affiliatefinder.co.uk
Then once the agreement has been signed, an account will be set up for you to be paid on. We will then email you a unique link so that all your sales are tracked. 
Framed link vs Banner ads. 
 
To what extent you incorporate our services is always up to you because each site is unique. Banners / logos are simple to incorporate, don't take up much room and are effective marketing tools. Framing our site within yours guarantees you don't lose traffic and adds content to attract back your users. Some of our affiliates use both strategies to great affect. 
But I'm not a techno geek. 
 
Don't panic! Technical help is just a phone call away to our technical department on 0709 2511050 
Is an exclusive deal wanted? 
 
Certainly not! Our conversion rates are currently the best on the web so we don't mind sitting alongside our competitors if they don't. 
What if our users don't buy? 
 
Don't worry, they will. But if the amount generated doesn't match expectations, all we would ask you to do is contact us directly on 0709 25011050 before removing the link. That way we both have the chance to discuss other opportunities your affiliation may have generated. 
Is the contract binding? 
 
The agreement simply states that should you have a link from your site to ours, then it is our duty to pay you a certain commission based on the number of quotes that have converted. It doesn't lock you into anything and you may stop at any time. 
I need affiliates too! 
 
All websites need effective marketing strategies and affiliation is one of the most productive and mutually satisfying. Affiliate Finder is currently one of the largest Affiliate schemes on the web which we are happy to promote, because of the dramatic improvement seen in Insurance Centre sales since taking them on board.
If you own a website and you would like other websites to market your products and services and are willing to offer commission in the way The Insurance Centre does then find out how to proceed by contacting 'Affiliate Finder' on 0709 2511050.
Affiliate Finder will strive to fulfil all your affiliate needs, marketing your products and services to 1000's of different websites.
If you wish to generate revenue by becoming an affiliate member, simply click on one of the contracts above and fill out your details online. You can then either print off a copy and fax it to 0709 2516002 or you can attach to an email to tracy@affiliatefinder.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
Exclusive Deals 
 
 
 
 
 
Join our successful Affiliate Program and benefit from a working revenue stream. 
 
 
NEW:
Commercial Vehicle
Commercial Business
Commercial Taxi
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Us 
Privacy Policy | Feedback | Copyright & Legal | Company Profile | Jobs@The Insurance Centre
Recomended Group Sites 
 car insurance uk, home insurance, travel insurance, bike insurance, cheapest insurance quotes @ www.theinsurancecentre.co.uk 
 used cars, car insurance, used car prices, car prices, the best cars and deals @ www.carsource.co.uk"
 used car prices, car prices and used car price guide, the best cars and deals @ www.carprices.co.uk 
 
 
 
return to top 
