
	
	
	CIS Life Insurance
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Do you want an affordable way to save for something you've always wanted? The holiday of a lifetime, perhaps? Or the car of your dreams?
	
Well, CIS Platinum Plus could be the ideal way to achieve it.
	
 
It is 
 a medium to long term with-profits savings plan which grows from the addition 
 of an annual bonus. A final bonus may be added on death or when you cash in 
 your plan. The CIS Platinum Plus gives you the flexibility to increase or 
 decrease your monthly payments at any time and should you need to, you can 
 take a short savings break with two payment holidays each year. The with-profits 
 fund smooths out the ups and downs of the stock market and you can have access 
 to your money if you need it.
	
 
A cash 
 in charge and market value reduction may apply. Please see notes.
	
Choose to save tax-free
	The Platinum Plus forms the life assurance element of a CIS ISA which allows you to save up to £1,000 each tax year in a mini or maxi ISA, tax free!
	
 Contact us 
 via the further information form 
 and we will be pleased to send you more details or if you would like to contact 
 your local representative visit Getting 
 In Touch. 
 
This graph shows the comparative performance of £80 invested each month over the last 10 years in a building society account and a CIS savings plan with no withdrawls.
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
 
Notes:
 
 Comparative performance of £80 invested each month over the last ten 
 years in a building society account and a CIS savings plan with no withdrawals. 
 The building society figure is for an average higher interest account with 
 net interest reinvested assuming the investor pays UK income tax at the basic 
 rate over the 10 year period up to January 2002 (Source: Standard & Poor's 
 Micropal). CIS Platinum Plus has only recently been introduced. However, we 
 believe that the performance of Platinum Plus over the last 10 years would 
 have been similar to that actually achieved by CIS with-profits savings products. 
 The actual performance for a CIS savings plan is shown above. The figure assumes 
 a regular direct debit payment of £80 a month, made by a person who 
 was aged 30 next birthday when the plan was started, for a fixed 10-year term 
 with no option to take payment holidays. The chart shows the estimated value 
 of the plan after 10 years ending in January 2002.
 
The figure 
 shown is on a net basis, without taking into account the tax benefits Platinum 
 Plus will attract when held within a tax free Individual Savings Account. 
 For ISA policies, there is no income tax or capital gains tax to pay either 
 on the underlying fund or on the policy proceeds. In addition CIS can claim 
 a 10% tax credit on dividends from UK shares held in respect of ISA policies 
 and paid for before 6th April 2004. The credit will be added to the underlying 
 funds, thereby increasing the eventual payout. No tax credits will be available 
 after that date.
 
	
The future level of bonuses under Platinum Plus is not guaranteed.
	
 
Past performance 
 is not necessarily a guide to future performance. Investment returns are now, 
 and seem likely to remain at, much lower levels than those obtained during 
 the period illustrated. In these circumstances, you should not assume that 
 an investment made now will do as well as this in the future.
 
You should 
 bear in mind that a with-profits plan is a different type of investment to 
 a deposit account and early encashment could result in a reduced return.
	
 
In order 
 to secure a fair share of the CIS with-profits fund it may be necessary, in 
 rare and exceptional circumstances to apply a market value reduction to reduce 
 the plan value upon certain enchashments.
	
Examples of such circumstances would be a prolonged or deep fall in stockmarket values.
	
 
A market 
 value reduction will not be applied to payments upon death.
	
 
Details 
 of taxation of the plan can be found in our Product Summary Leaflet.
	
 
Legislation 
 governing taxation is liable to change and the information contained on the 
 page is based on CIS' understanding of the current position.
	
 
If you cash in your plan 
 an additional charge is made which is expressed as a percentage of each contribution 
 invested in the plan. The charge depends on the time the contribution was 
 made as follows :-
	
	
	
	
	
	Number of months since payment of contribution
	 
	
	
 Cash 
 in charge (% of contribution) 
 
	 
	
	
	Less than 12 
	6 
	
	
	At least 12 but less than 24 
	4 
	
	
	At least 24 but less than 36 
	2 
	
	
	36 or more 
	0 
	
	
	
	
 
A full 
 description of the plan referred to on this web site is contained in the appropriate 
 plan document, a copy of which is available on request.
	
 
This information 
 relates to the products of the Co-operative Insurance Society Limited and 
 CIS Policyholder Services Ltd which are members of the CIS marketing group 
 and are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for investment business. 
	
