
SmartViews: "Vroom for improvement"
 
 
 
 
 
 Buying a new or used car is always a big decision. Are you ready to buy online?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Auto Trader 
	 
 Car Busters
 
 
 
 
 
 Vroom for improvement
Is buying a car online as easy as some TV ads make out, asks Quentin Winsome
Seen the Vauxhall television ad where a bearded, slightly batty Gryff Rhys Jones manages to buy several Astras over the net quicker than you can say 'sad old comedy has-been'? You get the impression that all you have to do is pick your car, enter your credit card details and voila! a spanking new motor will be delivered to your doorstep. 
Unfortunately, it isn't quite that simple. Not at http://buypower.vauxhall.co.uk it isn't. Apart from the tedium of having to register to use the site (a chore devised by some evil internet marketing director somewhere and the bane of my online life), you don't actually end up ever entering your credit card details and pressing the 'buy' button. Oh no. First you have to 'build your car', then select your payment option (i.e. hp, part exchange, etc) and then select your dealer - who then will contact you to complete the deal. No glorious online transaction to report at all. You also don't have the choice of every Vauxhall model to 'buy' in this way either. There's only a limited selection of their top selling brands on offer. The quaintly called astra.com starts at £11,470.
Of course when it comes to buying a car, half the fun is actually in browsing the showrooms, pretending you can afford the sportier models while secretly checking out the price and comfort factor of the family 5-door saloon. And this is where the internet can save you loads of time and shoe leather.
The net is teeming with car sites with plenty of good advice on buying and selling motors and huge databases of cars for sale. You can't go wrong by logging onto www.autotrader.co.uk as a starting point. It gives you a comprehensive guide to buying used and new cars with added extras such as a running cost calculator in its new car section and car comparisons on used models. It also gives you lots of hints and tips, e.g. buying from a dealer is the safest way to buy and auctions the riskiest. 
Yourautochoice.com specialises in nearly new cars at between 20-40% less than new car prices. It's also currently offering a £20 voucher towards the purchase of a car if you enter its 'Win a VW Golf' competition, so if every penny counts...
www.tins.co.uk is an easy to get around site offering thousands of new and used cars, all at special deals. When I visited, it had a Vauxhall Astra 3 door hatch 1.6i Envoy on offer at £9495 (stating a 20%+ saving on the manufacturer's price of £12,895). This is where you have to keep an eye open. That price didn't tally with the price of the same model according to www.autotrader.co.uk or with the price on Vauxhall's own site. 
Then there's the car import avenue to explore. www.importyourcar.com isn't a free service but it does give you a complete price guide comparing all makes in 15 European countries to make sure you get the best deal, together with a list of Euro dealers willing to sell UK spec cars. More user-friendly because it's free, is www.carimporting.co.uk which gives loads of advice and warns you of the many pitfalls when attempting to import a bargain motor.
If you're on the look out for a bargain, then autotrader.co.uk's search and find database is a godsend. I found loads of second hand Astras, ranging in price from £2,695 (for a 1994 model) to £5,995 (1997), together with all the sellers' contact details. Offers included private sales and those from dealers.
Another second-hand car site to check out is www.preloved.co.uk which actually has an under £500 section where I found a rather snazzy D-reg Ford Orion in banana yellow with a 6 month MOT going for £400. No Astras though. Pity.
Happy hunting!
 
 
 
