
CETA News Story
Title: PROTECTION AGAINST 'ROGUE TRADERS' | Release Date: 01/03/2002
With average house prices in the North West now exceeding £82,000 it's no surprise that moving home is seen as one of the most stressful things you can do. But the UKs largest general insurance network, CETA, is warning house buyers in the region that it isn't just sky high prices that can cause problems - a true 'house of horrors' can await unsuspecting homebuyers who fall foul of 'rogue traders'.
Director of CETA, David Quick, explains: "There is plenty of evidence, much of it broadcast on television for our entertainment, to show that a multitude of things can go wrong when you buy a home. Existing owners may refuse to move out, solicitors may miss vital information when conducting a local authority search, valuers may overlook important structural defects, builders may not stand by the warranty they provide on the property, removal firms may do a bodge job and even utility companies can fail to connect vital services on moving day.
"Many of these traders have professional indemnity insurance to protect them against claims from their customers, but customers rarely have insurance in place to protect them against rogue traders."
As more and more of us move and remortgage - and according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders more than £150 billion was lent to homeowners last year - so the chances of things going wrong get greater. So what can be done about it?
David Quick offers the following six simple solutions:
1)	Follow the example of the tradesmen you are dealing with - buy insurance against unforeseen problems when you move house. Policies are now available to provide cover in such circumstances and the good news is that they are not expensive. A one off premium of approximately £30 will buy you a great deal of piece of mind.
2)	Ensure you are dealing with a reputable firm of solicitors. Try and avoid sole practitioners and find out what other clients think of them. If you are using a lenders solicitor you should be OK as they usually have to go through an approval process to be on a lenders panel.
3)	The same rules apply to valuers, but you usually have less choice as valuers are normally appointed by the lender. If you have concerns about a property, eg if it's vulnerable to subsidence, mention your concerns to your lender and they can brief the valuer.
4)	Check out the reputation of the removal company you intend using. It's so easy to simply choose a removal firm based on cheapest cost but remember, they will be responsible for handling all your worldly possessions. 
5)	If you are buying new property, make a list of any defects as soon as you move in and let the builder have the list in writing. If there is a dispute at a later date, this list could be vital to your case.
6)	If you have problems with utilities and they are slow to respond, remember that each utility has a watchdog who can help take up your case. Speak to your local Citizens Advice Bureau and they will help put the wheels in motion.
Readers who are interested in finding out more about homebuyers insurance can get further information by phoning CETA on 01608 647624.
-	ends - 
For further information contact:
Stephen Grundy or Josh Cooper at Proteus Public Relations
on 01295 279626
