
James Hampden Freedom Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
To pay according to the following schedule of benefits if at any time 
during the Period of Travel the Insured Person sustains bodily injury 
caused by an accident which solely and independently of any other 
cause results in his death or disablement as specified within twelve 
calendar months from the date of such accident:
 
 
1. Death £25,000 
 
2. Loss of one limb or one eye £25,000 
 
3. Loss of two limbs or both eyes or one limb and one eye £25,000 
 
4. Permanent Total Disablement £25,000 
 
 
For children under 16 years of age the death benefit is limited to 
£2,500.
 
 
The Underwriters shall only be liable:
 
(i) under item 1 of the Schedule of Benefits if death occurs within twenty-four 
calendar months of the date of the accident.
 
(ii) under items 2 and 3 of the Schedule of Benefits if the loss of 
limb(s) and/or eye(s) occurs within twenty-four 
calendar months of the date of the accident.
 
(iii) under item 4 of the Schedule of Benefits if the period of 
Total Disablement giving rise to the claim for this item commences within 
twenty-four calendar months of the date of the accident and lasts for twelve 
consecutive calendar months or more.
 
 
Disappearance Clause If after a reasonable period of time has elapsed 
and all available evidence examined there is reason to presume the 
death of the Insured Person as the result of an occurrence covered by 
this Section of the Insurance, the disappearance of the Insured 
Person shall be deemed a claim hereunder. If at any time after 
payment of such claim the Insured Person shall be found to be living, 
all sums so paid shall be refunded to the Underwriters.
 
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
