
Financial Planning Centre - PIFC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Student Loans
 
 
 
Student Debts Increase 
24/8/2001 
The cost of a University Education
 
A MORI poll published at the beginning of this year revealed some gloomy news
about the financial position of today's students. The survey of 1,100 students
revealed that the average student now has a debt of over £3,300 and expects
this amount to rise to more than £7,000 by the end of their course. The final
loan total could be much higher, as the table below reveals. A London student
taking the maximum loan for each year of a three-year course will end their
course with a debt of nearly £13,500, and that is ignoring accumulated
interest, inflationary increases in loan entitlements and other borrowings (such
as overdrafts).
The potential burden of debt has already resulted in a rise in the proportion
of students attending local colleges and universities. More than half of those
who did so admitted that financial motivations were behind their decision to
stay at home. But the average stay-at-home student still expected to run up
debts of £6,000 by the end of their course.
One reason why the students' estimates for their final debts are not higher
is the financial assistance given by family members. Almost nine out of ten
students received some form of financial help from parents, guardians, a partner
or other family member, according to the MORI poll. Term-time work has also
helped students to keep bills down - nearly a third of students work part-time
while they are at university.
Despite all this potential debt, most students were not yet worried about
loans. Perhaps they had not calculated that on leaving university with a typical
graduate salary of say £18,000 a year, they will be paying £60 a month to
clear their loan.
So if you have children (or grandchildren) destined for university, the
results of this survey should give you pause for thought. Commuting to college
and taking term-time jobs to make ends meet are not ideal ways to gain the
maximum benefit from a university course.
The solution is to plan in advance, so that the funds are there to meet the
education costs as they arise.
Maximum Student Loan Entitlements in 2001/02
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Full Year
 
 
 
 
 Final Year
 
 
 
 
 Three Year Total*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Students living away from their parents' home and studying:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
· in London
 
 
 
 £4,700
 
 
 
 
 £4,075
 
 
 
 
 £13,475
 
 
 
 
 
 
· elsewhere
 
 
 
 £3,815
 
 
 
 
 £3,310
 
 
 
 
 £10,940
 
 
 
 
 
 
Students living with their parents
 
 
 
 £3,020
 
 
 
 
 £2,635
 
 
 
 
 £ 8,675
 
 
 
 
(Source: DfEE)
*Excluding interest and any increases in loan entitlement
 
Relevant to: Students, Parents
 
Click here to enquire
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PIFC are regulated by the
 Financial Services Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
