
CHP Key People Main frame
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corporate 
 Profile 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 Events Calendar 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press 
 Releases 
 
 
 
 
 
 Results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Presentations 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email Alert 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 Price 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contacts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright 
 © Chaucer 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chaucer 
 Holdings PLC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martin Gilbert, qualified as a chartered accountant 
 in 1982 and thereafter pursued a career in investment management. 
 He was one of the founding directors, and is now chief executive 
 and investment director of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC. He 
 is a director of a number of investment trusts and of Lombard 
 International Assurance SA, in addition to being Chairman of 
 First Group PLC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christopher Fishwick joined Aberdeen Asset Managers 
 Limited in 1991. He is a director of Aberdeen Asset Management 
 PLC and a number of quoted investment trusts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert V Deutsch is based in the US and is Executive 
 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chicago-based 
 CNA Financial Corporation and its insurance companies. He assumed 
 this position in September, 1999. Prior to joining CNA, he was 
 an executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief 
 actuary for Executive Risk Inc., a specialty insurer based in 
 Connecticut, as well as a member of its board of directors. 
 Mr Deutsch's professional experience also includes serving as 
 assistant vice president with Swiss Re America and senior manager 
 with Ernst & Young. Mr Deutsch is a fellow of the Casualty 
 Actuarial Society, an associate of the Society of Actuaries, 
 and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 James E. Tait is 
 Chairman of Vesta Insurance Group, Inc., a New York Stock Exchange 
 company based in Birmingham, Alabama that offers personal insurance 
 and financial services products through its member companies. 
 He is also Chairman of Tait Advisory Services, a firm that specializes 
 in providing financial, economic and strategic counsel. Mr. Tait 
 spent 25 years with Coopers & Lybrand, where he was the insurance 
 industry team leader in the U.S. and managing partner for the 
 U.S. Midstates Region. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chris Forbes is a qualified 
 Barrister and Chartered Accountant. His involvement in the Lloyd's 
 market began in 1981 and in 1991 he was appointed Finance Director 
 of Charman Underwriting. Chris joined DP Mann in the position 
 of Finance Director, in 1992 and was appointed Managing Director 
 in 1996. During his time in Lloyd's he has served on a number 
 of committees and groups, including the Board of Additional Securities 
 Limited and the Lloyd's North American Board. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ewen Gilmour is a chartered accountant and has worked 
 in the Lloyd&#146;s market for seven years. He joined the Chaucer 
 Group in March 1998 and is Managing Director of Chaucer Holdings 
 PLC and Chaucer Syndicates Limited. He was formerly a corporate 
 financier with Charterhouse Bank from 1980 to 1993, becoming 
 a director in 1987. He joined the Corporation of Lloyd&#146;s 
 to help facilitate the introduction of corporate capital to 
 the Lloyd&#146;s market in 1993. He is also a member of the 
 MSU Board.
 
Contact Ewen 
 Gilmour
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ted Noble is a chartered accountant and held senior 
 positions with two insurance companies prior to his appointment 
 in 1989 as Finance Director of MFK Underwriting Agencies Limited. 
 Following the acquisition of MFK, he became Syndicate Finance 
 Director and latterly Finance Director. He was also Compliance 
 Officer from late 1996 until April 2000. In September 2000 he 
 was appointed as Group Finance Director of Chaucer Holdings 
 PLC, whilst continuing as Finance Director of the managing agency. 
 Ted is a member of the LUAA Managing Agents' Finance Committee.
 
Contact Ted Noble
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert Stuchbery is a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance 
 Institute and has worked in the Lloyd&#146;s market for 12 years. 
 He was appointed Underwriting Director of Chaucer Syndicates 
 Limited in April 2000, responsible for overseeing all underwriting 
 within the Group. He was previously the active underwriter of 
 Syndicate 1096. Prior to joining Lloyd&#146;s he was with CNA 
 Reinsurance of London Limited, working both in London and the 
 USA. He is an elected council member of the Lloyd&#146;s Non-Marine 
 Association.
 
 Contact Bob 
 Stuchbery
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hugh Hayward 
 has worked in the Lloyd&#146;s market for 12 years. He was appointed 
 active underwriter of Syndicate 1084 in October 1988. Prior to 
 that, he spent 10 years with Folksam International (UK) Insurance 
 Company Limited where he rose from Deputy Marine Underwriter to 
 Marine Underwriter. From 1966 to 1978 Hugh was with the River 
 Thames Insurance Company, where he became Deputy Hull Underwriter. 
 He additionally has specific responsibility within Chaucer Syndicates 
 Limited as Aviation Director.
 
 Contact 
 Hugh Hayward 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Philip Osman joined Chaucer Holdings PLC as Company 
 Secretary in November 2000. Philip is a solicitor with over 
 20 years' experience of providing in-house legal, management 
 and administration services and support in a wide range of businesses. 
 More recently, Philip has worked with Serco Group PLC (facilities 
 management) and Insignia Richard Ellis (US-owned chartered surveyors) 
 in a similar role.
 
 Contact Philip 
 Osman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
