
 
Cornhill Direct
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
	 
	
	
 	
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 	
	 
	 
	
 
	 
 
 
 Quick Quotes 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 
 Van 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 
 Life 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home Insurance - Contents cover policy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Safety precautions 
 
 
 
 
We offer the following hints on precautions 
 worth taking. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fire 
 prevention 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your electrical 
 equipment regularly. Make sure that you use the 
 correct fuses and do not overload the circuits. Ask for 
 the help of a qualified electrician if you are 
 not sure. If you leave the property for more than 
 24 hours, unplug all unnecessary appliances. Fires often 
 happen in kitchens. You can put out chip-pan fires 
 by shutting out the air. Cover the pan with a lid or thick 
 damp cloth. Do not use water or try to carry the pan out 
 of doors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water 
 damage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lag exposed water pipes and 
 tanks in the roof area and taps in the garage or outbuildings. 
 Cut off the water and drain the system if you leave 
 the property without heat in winter. If pipes freeze, 
 despite your precautions, thaw them out using hot-water 
 bottles. Never use a blowlamp. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Know 
 your own property 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Keep a detailed description 
 of your property (including serial numbers and 
 photographs, where possible). It will help you 
 - and the police - after a theft. If you cannot 
 provide a good enough description, it hampers the police 
 in their work as items they believe to be stolen cannot 
 be positively identified and the thieves prosecuted. It 
 also means that a lot of stolen property recovered by 
 the police is never claimed because the owners cannot 
 identify it as belonging to them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When you go away on holiday: 
 
 
- stop newspaper and milk deliveries (do not tell 
 a lot of people that you are going away);and
 
- place any silver and valuables, which are not being 
 taken or worn, into safe custody with a bank or other 
 suitable place. Make sure, before you leave, 
 that all doors and windows are closed and locked. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Return to index page 
 
 
 
 Print this page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Policy Document version 1.0 - 12th April 2001
 
 
 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
 
 
