
CETA News Story
Title: CETA SEES DEMAND FOR ASU PROTECTION RISE SHARPLY AMONG TRAVEL, FINANCE AND IT PROFESSIONALS | Release Date: 
CETA, the UK’s largest general insurance network, has identified a marked increase in people employed in the travel, finance and IT industries applying for Accident, Sickness and Unemployment (ASU) policies during the final quarter of 2001.
As part of its regular monitoring of market trends, CETA analysed a sample of the ASU applications it received recently and compared them to the same period a year ago.
During 2001, employees of manufacturing companies were the largest group of people taking out ASU policies. However, compared to 2000, there was a significant rise in applications from white collar professions. Recent world events appear to have led to an increase in people taking out policies who are employed by companies involved in the travel industry (from 2% to 11% of applications), IT (from 4% to 11%) and financial (from 1% to 9%) sectors. Applications from employees of retail companies also increased. 
Commenting on the benchmarking analysis David Quick, CETA’s Managing Director said ‘Unemployment is set to rise to over 1 million as high profile redundancy announcements made in recent months begin to feed through. Most UK households have a high level of debt and as more people begin to feel nervous about the security of their employment they will be looking to ensure their mortgage and essential bills will continue to be paid if they lose their job’.
‘The deteriorating employment picture offers an opportunity for intermediaries to offer their clients high quality advice’ added David Quick. ‘A common mistake is to try to sell clients a full ASU policy when in reality they may only be interested in or need protection against the imminent threat of unemployment. By breaking the cover down intermediaries will be able to tailor their advice to address a specific need and are likely to generate more business as potential customers will not be put off by the cost of a full ASU policy’.
CETA also believes that intermediaries should carefully consider the type of ASU policy which their clients take out. A typical policy provides 12 months worth of cover, however, it is possible to get policies which will provide the income required for two to three years. There is also a timing factor which needs to be considered. Typical policies have a 60 day exclusion period. It may be more appropriate to source a policy which has a 30 day exclusion period or one which will provide immediate cover.
‘There are a range of ASU products available’ said David Quick. ‘This market niche is more sophisticated than many intermediaries realise and with commission rates as high as 25% it is one they should market more intensively. However, they must ensure that they have access to competitive products and good back office support. Once these are in place they will be able to compete very effectively with the high street banks and building societies whose own label products are often very expensive’. 
ENDS
For further information contact:
Stephen Grundy or Josh Cooper at Proteus Public Relations on 01295 279626
