
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome to the Direct Choice Insurance Website
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLEASE TAKE A FEW MOMENTS TO READ THESE NOTES WHICH 
 ARE FOR YOUR GUIDANCE
 
Your Duty of Disclosure 
 
 
We cannot stress too strongly the importance of full disclosure when 
 proposing for, or renewing, any insurance policy. Even an innocent 
 omission of a single speeding offence a few years ago could result in 
 insurers refusing to pay a claim if they would not have accepted the 
 risk in full knowledge. 
 
Quotations
 
Our quotations are guaranteed based on the information provided at 
 the date given. We reserve the right to withdraw quotations before they 
 are taken up, and to apply any changes notified to us by underwriters 
 after the quotation was given.
 
Law to be applied
 
The parties are free to choose the law applicable to a contract of 
 insurance. Unless specifically agreed to the contrary all contracts 
 arranged through our Agency are subject to the Law of England and Wales.
 
 
Complaints Procedure
 
It is always our intention, and that of your insurers, to provide the 
 best possible standard of service. If you have a complaint which is not 
 handled to your satisfaction, please write to our Customer Care Manager.
 
Should the matter still not be resolved to your satisfaction further 
 procedures will be advised.
 
Cancellation
 
Practices vary between insurers, but be aware that cancellation 
 refunds are not given after a claim, and otherwise calculated on a short 
 period scale weighted in favour of the insurer as their costs are 
 similar whether a policy has run for one month or twelve. We do not 
 refund commission, since this was earned for arranging the policy 
 (unless you are replacing the policy through our Agency). Instalment 
 charges are not refunded.
 
Our charges
 
In order to cover the costs incurred, we charge £20 each time a 
 cheque is unpaid. If you know you will not have funds to meet a cheque, 
 just call us and we will be pleased to delay presentation to assist.
 
Please take care of your Certificate of Insurance. It is a legal 
 document and duplicates incur a charge of £15.
 
We charge for payment by instalments - please refer to your 
 payment options.
 
We make a charge of £14 in respect of adjustments to your policy, 
 and do not refund commission.
 
Account settlement
 
Accounts are payable immediately, and a charge of £5 is added to 
 any reminders after the first.
 
Year 2000 and other Date Recognition
 
No doubt you have heard of the problems that may be caused due to 
 equipment and electrical items being unable to recognise certain dates, 
 which may result in failure or breakdown.
 
Insurance policies have never been intended to cover items that 
 simply breakdown or fail to work and failure to handle a date correctly 
 is an example. An endorsement clarifying that failed items are not 
 covered is included in your Policy or Schedule. Please check the 
 endorsement carefully and refer back to us if you do not understand it.
 
"Taylor Price Direct Choice" and "Direct Choice" are trading names 
 of Taylor Price & Co who are independent intermediaries regulated under 
 the A.B.I. Code of Conduct.
 
We reserve the right to revise charges without notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Products described on these pages apply to UK mainland 
 applicants only.
 
Copyright Taylor Price & Co. 1998-2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
|
 travel | 
 car |
 motorcycle |
 home |
 liability |
 breakdown |
 vacancies |
 | uninsured |
 partners |
 glass |
 glass policy |
 terms of trading |
 | legal 
 protection policy |
 legal protection 
 | Taylor Price 
 |
 
 
 
 
 
