
CETA News Story
Title: CETA AND GENESIS MORTGAGE SERVICES FORM NEW PARTNERSHIP | Release Date: 15/11/2001
The UK’s largest general insurance network, CETA, has formed a new partnership with General Mortgage Services (GMS). The agreement will initially give CETA’s 3000 members access to a comprehensive package of mortgages covering the entire market from prime to flexible. In return, CETA’s general insurance products will be made available to Genesis’ mortgage broker network.
Based in Peterborough, GMS sources its mortgages from more than 20 lenders. The partnership will enable CETA’s members to offer clients a full range of mortgage products including buy to let, 100%, self-cert, non status and non conforming. CETA members will be able to use a single generic application form which can be downloaded directly from its normal quotation and trading system, completed and transmitted electronically to GMS for processing.
To take advantage of the new partnership CETA members will need to register with GMS who will send them full product information and details of procuration fees. Once registered, members will receive regular product up-dates.
‘GMS provides some competitive, innovative and often unique products’ commented David Quick, CETA’s Managing Director. ‘They share our view that providing market leading products is not enough - it has to be matched by a fast and efficient ‘back office’ service. I am delighted to be working with GMS and believe it is going to be a very successful partnership’.
As part of the agreement GMS members will also gain access to CETA’s tailor made general insurance quotation and administration software system which can be easily interfaced with existing web sites to provide a full on-line general insurance marketing capability. As a result GMS introducers will be able to extend the products they offer to include CETA’s market leading household, ASU, commercial, liability, legal, travel, pet and motor insurance products. The two partners also intend to develop a range of innovative products which will be exclusively available to GMS introducers and CETA members in due course.
Barry Robson, Genesis’ Managing Director added ‘In a world where maintaining a viable business solely from the sale of mortgages is becoming harder and harder it is important that brokers maximize their income by selling other allied insurance products. Our aim is to provide our brokers with the best products the market can offer. We believe we have achieved this through our partnership with CETA. They have a good panel of insurers, their products are innovative and their technological and administration support is first class’.
General insurance intermediaries and IFAs interested in finding out more about the new partnership should call CETA on 01608 647650.
 - ENDS -
Journalists requiring further information, please contact:
Stephen Grundy or Josh Cooper
Proteus Public Relations Limited	Tel:	01295 279626
Barry Robson
Genesis Mortgage Services	Tel:	01842 275044
