
Syndicate 1096 Key People
 
 
 
 
 
 Bruce Bartell was appointed 
 Active Underwriter of Syndicate 1096 from Deputy Underwriter in May 
 2000. He joined Chaucer Syndicates Limited in 1988 as Active Underwriter 
 of Syndicate 1117, which commenced trading for the 1989 account. Prior 
 to this appointment, he worked for fifteen years in the London Company 
 market. 
 
Contact 
 Bruce Bartell
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ian Cassidy has spent most of his career working in the Lloyd&#146;s 
 market, most significantly for managing agencies where he has been involved 
 in most areas of syndicate management. Currently he is a member 
 of the Market Reinsurance Business Panel. 
 
Contact Ian Cassidy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rob Littlemore is the Deputy 
 Underwriter having joined the syndicate in 1988 after a brief spell 
 with a Lloyd&#146;s broker. Rob is an Associate of the Chartered Insurance 
 Institute and is responsible for the syndicates Fidelity, Claims Made 
 and General Liability account. 
 
Contact 
 Rob Littlemore
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rob Van Der Straaten joined the syndicate in August 2000. He has previously 
 held the position of Reinsurance Manager at both syndicate and managing 
 agency levels. Rob has worked in the Lloyd&#146;s market since 1987 
 and is also experienced in syndicate management. 
 
Contact Rob Van 
 Der Straaten
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martin Francis has 24 years claims experience, 12 of which have 
 been gained in Lloyd&#146;s. He is known, particularly, for his 
 liability expertise but has wide experience of handling most areas of 
 property and liability claims. 
 
Contact Martin Francis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Benton joined Chaucer Syndicates Limited (previously Stewart 
 Syndicates Limited) in 1981 and has 19 years experience of handling 
 claims in the Lloyd&#146;s market. Recognised primarily as a property 
 lead, he has expanded his knowledge to handle claims emanating 
 from the diverse book of business now being written by the syndicate.
 
 Contact Mark Benton
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bill Hodkin is responsible for the US Direct Property Account. 
 He joined Chaucer Syndicates Limited in 1964 and has had extensive experience 
 of underwriting non-marine property business, particularly from the 
 United States. He is a recognised leader of US Property business. 
 
 
Contact Bill Hodkin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ian McCallister has been in the Lloyd's market for 13 years. 
 Prior to joining Chaucer at the beginning of 1998 Ian had spent 8 years 
 in the broking community, the last 5 spent with the North American 
 Department of C.E. Heath. He is currently studying for his CPCU examinations. 
 
 
Contact Ian McCallister
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Edward Lines joined the syndicate in February 1997. He brings 
 with him 17 years of International Property experience gained from working 
 with GAN in London and from a brief spell in Brussels. During the last 
 9 years he has developed a very well supported and profitable lead account. 
 
 
Contact Ed Lines
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Palmer joined Syndicate 1096 in 2000 having previously 
 underwritten a successful International Property book in the London 
 company market and brings with him 13 years' experience in this field. 
 
 
Contact Mark Palmer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nick Benardout joined the syndicate in August 1998. He has had 
 previous treaty underwriting experience in the Company markets with 
 Hartford Re and Mercantile and General Re. He has significant involvement 
 in the international treaty account specialising in catastrophe and 
 risk excess of loss.
 
 Contact Nick Benardout 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gareth Buxton commenced his insurance career with a Lloyd&#146;s 
 syndicate in 1983. In 1986 he transferred to the Underwriting team enjoying 
 exposure to a wide variety of business from many areas of the world. 
 In June 1994 he joined the North American Binding Authority team at 
 Sphere Drake Insurance Company. Gareth joined Chaucer in June 1998 to 
 assist in the development of the North American Binder Account.
 
Contact Gareth Buxton
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
David Barber joined Syndicate 1096 in 1995 to handle US Casualty 
 and Professional Indemnity claims. David has recently moved to the underwriting 
 side to assist writing the US Casualty book of business. Prior to this, 
 he spent 5 years as a Lloyd's broker. 
 
Contact David Barber
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Andrew Robinson joined the syndicate in September 
 2001. He brings with him 16 years of North American Property experience, 
 having worked in both the Lloyd's and London Company markets.
 
Contact 
 Andy Robinson
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ian Stevenson joined the Syndicate in September 2001. He has 
 been underwriting International Direct Property business for over 20 
 years in the London Company market and specialises in Excess of Loss. 
 He is a respected market leader in this field.
 
Contact Ian Stevenson
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key 
 People 
 
 
 
 
 
 Statistics 
 
 
 
 
 
 Profile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright 
 © Chaucer 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chaucer 
 Non Marine Syndicate 1096 
 
 
 
 
 
