
James Hampden Freedom Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
The Limit -- £3 million shall mean that Under-writers shall be 
liable to a limit of £3 million under Subsections (a) to (c) and 
(e) to (g). The printed individual limit applicable to Sub-section 
(d) shall remain unchanged. The Underwriters shall only be liable in 
respect of those expenses incurred within the period up to but not 
beyond the date on which the Insured Person returns to the United 
Kingdom at the termination of the Period of Travel, or the twelve 
months anniversary date following the date on which the insured 
bodily injury, illness or contingency first occurred or commenced 
during the Period of Travel, whichever shall occur the sooner.
 
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption
 
The Underwriters shall only be liable:
 
1. under the cancellation and curtailment provisions of Subsection 
2(a) to the extent of the contractual liability.
 
2. For claims arising from delayed departure under Subsection 
2(a)(iv) and 2(c) if the Insured Person has obtained written 
confirmation from the Carriers or their Agents stating the actual 
date and time of departure and the reason for the delay. For the 
purposes of claims payment under these Subsections the period of 
delay shall be taken as commencing at the departure time of the 
conveyance as specified in the booking confirmation supplied to the 
Insured Person.
 
3. Under Subsection 2(b)(i) if in the selection of the route, means 
of travel and time of departure the Insured Person has done all 
things reasonable and practicable to minimise the possibility of late 
arrival at the United Kingdom departure point.
 
4. For claims under Subsection 2(b)(i) attributable to mechanical 
breakdown or non-scheduled transport if the Insured Person has 
obtained a garage or motoring organisation report confirming the 
date, cause and time of such breakdown.
 
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (2)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (3)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
