
Syndicate 587 Key People
 
 
 
 
 
 
Andrew Burgess is aged 34 and qualified as a Fellow of the Chartered 
 Institute of Personnel & Development. He is responsible for the 
 HR function at Group and Syndicate level.
 
Contact Andrew Burgess
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pat Carney joined the Syndicate in February 2001 having previously 
 worked at the Orion and Guardian Health as Head of Business Systems 
 and Services. His responsibilities include the management of the business 
 systems department and defining the IT strategy for the Syndicate.
 
Contact Pat Carney
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Leonard joined the Syndicate in 1997 having 
 gained experience in the insurance industry over 14 years. He is responsible 
 for underwriting special classes which include motorcycle, commercial 
 vehicle, motor trade and taxi accounts.
 
Contact 
 Mark Leonard
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key 
 People 
 
 
 
 
 
 Statistics 
 
 
 
 
 
 Products 
 
 
 
 
 
 Profile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright 
 © Chaucer 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chaucer 
 Insurance Syndicate 587 
 
 
 
 
 Mary Towndrow joined 
 Syndicate 587 in 1987, having previously been director of a major 
 Lloyd&#146;s broker within their personal lines and scheme division. 
 She was appointed Deputy Underwriter in 1997 and became Underwriter 
 in 2000. She is a member of the LMUA committee. 
 
Contact Mary 
 Towndrow
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Graham Hughes joined 
 the Syndicate in 1989, having previously worked for a major Lloyd&#146;s 
 broker. As syndicate general manager he is responsible for the 
 control of all administration processes, appraisal of internal 
 systems and meeting performance targets throughout the business. 
 
 
Contact 
 Graham Hughes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kim Barber joined the syndicate 
 in 1991, having previous experience with another motor syndicate. 
 His responsibilities involve the management of the fleet department 
 and underwriting of the syndicate fleet account, both from Whitstable 
 and the underwriting box at Lloyd's. 
 
Contact Kim Barber
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ashley Bissett joined the syndicate 
 in 1998 having spent three years as Financial Controller of the 
 managing agency. He is a Chartered Accountant and a former member 
 of the LUAA Finance Committee. He is responsible for the control 
 of all financial aspects of the syndicate, including regulatory 
 reporting, liaison with investment managers and ensuring tight 
 credit control. 
 
Contact Ashley 
 Bissett
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alan Sausse joined 587 in September 
 2000, having previously worked for a large affinity broker as 
 company actuary. He qualified as a fellow of the Institute of 
 Actuaries in 1997. His responsibilities include pricing and reserving 
 activity for 587, as well as overseeing the management information 
 team. 
 
Contact Alan 
 Sausse
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alan Woodcock, formerly managing 
 director of Sabre Insurance Co. Ltd joined Chaucer Insurance to 
 head a new non-standard motor underwriting team. Alan helped to 
 found Sabre in 1983 and grew the company to be one of the leading 
 UK non-standard insurers. At Chaucer Insurance he concentrates 
 on non-standard private car risks as part of a planned development 
 of the company&#146;s product range. 
 
Contact Alan 
 Woodcock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Michael Smith joined 
 Chaucer in 1994 originally managing the Worcester regional office 
 and responsible for agencies across the Southwest, Midlands and 
 Wales. He was relocated to Whitstable in 1996 and is now responsible 
 for underwriting and controlling Chaucer mota-marque, the syndicate's 
 private motor product.
Contact Michael 
 Smith
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nick Burnap joined the syndicate 
 in August 1999, having previously worked for 20 years in the company 
 market with Orion and Guardian Insurance. He was appointed Technical 
 Claims Manager in May 2001 and is responsible for technical claims 
 management issues, control of reserves and setting of technical 
 claims philosophy. 
 
Contact Nick 
 Burnap
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nigel Spokes has been with 
 the Syndicate for 20 years and gained experience in both fleet 
 and personal lines underwriting. He now carries out the business 
 and broker development role for all non-fleet products, with responsibility 
 for the UK broker network. 
 
Contact Nigel 
 Spokes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Martin Keen joined Syndicate 
 587 in 1997 having gained his experience with another Lloyd&#146;s 
 Syndicate. 
 
He is responsible for the management and development of national 
 broker business, which represents substantial income for the 
 syndicate.
 
Contact Martin 
 Keen
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
