
	Scottish Friendly
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	home > about us > in the community 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Scottish Friendly is proud to support The Scottish Book Trust
	
Curl up with a book
Scottish Friendly has a longstanding commitment to supporting reading and literacy in communities throughout Scotland. For the past three years it has sponsored Scottish Book Trust, the independent organisation that promotes books and reading in Scotland with the partnership winning awards from Arts and Business Scotland.
For the last two years we have sponsored their touring programme - Words on Wheels - in which authors and illustrators are taken in their specially converted bright yellow van into primary schools to meet the children while Scottish Book Trust staff stage a Book Bonanza, introducing children to all kinds of different books. It was such a success that we are sponsoring it again for another year.
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Words of Wonder
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Book review
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
Words of wonder
We also sponsor Words of Wonder, age-ranged leaflets suggesting the best of books for young people, which have been extremely popular with parents, teachers and librarians. You can access copies of these by clicking on the links below:
Words of Wonder - 0-4 years [pdf]
Words of Wonder - 4-8 years [pdf]
Words of Wonder - 8-11 years [pdf]
Words of Wonder - 11 yrs+ [pdf]
	 
	
	
	 
	
	You will need the Adobe Acrobat Reader to view the pdfs. If you do not have it you can download it for free from the Adobe website. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Book review 
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Scottish Book Trust staff are all hugely enthusiastic about reading, and have an international reputation for 	their work with young people, so we have asked them to supply a couple of book reviews - either for children or adults - to recommend to visitors to the Scottish Friendly website. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	For pre-school children 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Rainbow Fish and The Big Blue Whale
by Marcus Pfister (NorthSouth Books 0735814309 £6.99)
Third in a popular series, this chunky little board book finds Rainbow Fish and his friends learning to share the ocean with Big Blue Whale. The little fish are understandably nervous when a whale arrives on their reef. Is he there to eat them? But Big Blue Whale just wants to look at the pretty fish and be friends. An exciting first look at life under the sea, complete with lots of glittering fish. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	For 5 to 8 year-olds 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Bumble
 by Alison Prince (Young Corgi 055254700X £3.99)
Bumble the hamster knows what's expected of him as a pet and does his best to keep his owner, Rosie, entertained with his Pocket Diving and Finger Balancing tricks. But when he experiments with playing Hide and Seek around the house, Rosie's parents for some reason confine him to the cage. Bored and overweight, Bumble is ready for some fun when a gang of street-wise mice arrive on the scene, but how can he keep Rosie's parents and the mice happy? A fun, easy to read tale and an endearing new character from this award-winning Scottish author. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	contact us
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Register for our Monthly newsletter - Email 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 Go 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
