 "http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/loose.dtd">
SmartSounds: "Follow the Leaders"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A closer look at the latest underground phenomenon
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Korn.Com
 
 Korn TV
 
 Epic Records
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 follow the leaders
 by Mark McLaughlin
Their current album went straight into #1 in the USA, they're one of the most frequently requested artists on MTV and they almost caused a riot last time they visited New York. They're called Korn and chances are you probably haven't heard of them... 
Formed back in the early 90's in Southern California, Korn are a five-piece meshing dark, urban rhythms and low-tuned guitar sludge with violent, expressionist blasts of hip-core noise. Fronted by the wildly emotional vocal delivery of singer Jonathan, the band released their latest opus "Follow The Leader" in mid-August last year.
Just how popular are Korn then? To promote the launch of the record, the band hit the road on the "Korn Kampaign" - a series of signings across the USA. One such stop in New York brought a deluge of 7,000 fans with a police sergeant on the scene quoting "This was the biggest in-store we've ever seen in New York City, and even crazier than when the Spice Girls were here".
Korn's huge fan base is in part due to the fact that they were one of the first bands to pick up on the huge potential of the Internet as a marketing medium. Before the release of their last album "Life is Peachy" in 1995, the band broadcast over the web an innovative live album release party from the studio, giving fans the opportunity to hear the new tracks and call in to speak to the band. 
Taking things a step further, with the release of last year's "Follow The Leader", the band launched a string of weekly shows with the tongue-in-cheek title of the "Korn After School Specials". Again, transmitted live from the studio on their own KornTV web site, this time round the shows gave a look into the work-in-progress on the record as well as special guest appearances from other bands and celebrities. 
But what of more traditional media? The recent success of their video "Got The Life" on MTV came a surprise to many who believed that heavy music was dead (for some time only the safe pop sounds of Backstreet Boys and N'Sync received more requests). Singer Jonathan comments, "It's cool, at least we're making some leeway. You know, someone's gotta bring rock back", adding that "I'm not saying we're trying to be the saviours of heavy rock or whatever - but you gotta do it to make it come back."
With "Family Values", one of the most ambitious tours of 1998 under their belt, their own newly-formed record label (Elementree) and another groundbreaking video featuring animation from renowned comic-book artist Todd McFarlane airing shortly, 1999 looks sure to continue Korn's success. Despite how it sounds though, the last word is down to them:
"We're not out to change the world, just music".
Mark McLaughlin is the maintainer of Korn's official site at www.korn.com.
 
 
