
car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Choose...
Motor
Home
Bike
Travel
Health
 
 
 
 
 Insurance Products 
 
 
Motor 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Home 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Travel 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
Vehicle 
 
Business 
 
Taxi 
 
 
 
Motorbike 
 
Quick Quote 
 
 
 
Health 
 
Life Term 
 
Critical Illness 
 
 
 
Other Services 
 
Competition 
 
News 
 
Recommended Buys 
 
Links 
 
Insurance Fun 
 
About Us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Should I do if I am involved in an accident?
If you are the driver you MUST STOP and give the vehicle's registration number, your name and address, and that of the owner; to anyone who needs it.
In addition, you should:
 Ensure the safety of yourself and others.
 If necessary, warn other traffic without putting yourself in danger.
 Ensure the police, fire and ambulance services are called to attend
 the scene if they are required.
 If you or anyone else present feels able to assist, treat any
 injured person or animal.
 Obtain the details of any witnesses.
 Note and record the positions of the vehicles. 
What is the role of the police at a road traffic accident? 
 To ensure the scene is safe and prevent further accidents.
 To co-ordinate the work of the emergency services.
 To investigate the cause of the accident and take appropriate
 action.
 In appropriate cases, record the details of the accident.
 Restore the flow of traffic. 
 
What details of the accident will the police need? 
Some constabularies will only record details and carry out initial investigations in the following circumstances:
 Where a person is killed or injured.
 Where one or more drivers have failed to stop.
 Where the police consider there is sufficient evidence
 to support a prosecution of one or more parties.
 Where a driver has obviously lost control.
 If damage is caused to any road sign or crash barrier.
 Where a vehicle defect has significantly contributed to the
 accident. 
 
What insurance details will the police require? 
The policy number and the address of the drivers insurance company is all that is generally required. These details are contained on every insurance certificate.
As a driver you must give your insurance details to anyone who has been injured or to anyone who wishes to make a claim against you, even though you may feel you are not to blame for the accident. Likewise, you may ask for another persons insurance if you have been injured or you wish to make a claim against them.
Failure to provide insurance details in these circumstances may constitute to an offence, which should be reported to the police. The police will only record insurance details where a person has been injured in a road accident.
Your insurance company should be informed of any accident you are involved in and will offer assistance and advice to you. 
 
If my vehicle is damaged in an accident, who is responsible for moving it? 
If you are a member of a motoring organisation they will arrange removal. Alternatively a garage nominated by you or a garage contacted via the police will remove the vehicle. The cost of removal is the responsibility of the owner and/or driver. 
 
Will any driver be prosecuted? 
The police do not apportion blame nor investigate accidents on behalf of insurance companies. The police will only further investigate those accidents involving fatalities or serious injuries and those which involve an element of aggressive behaviour, impatient driving, or the misuse of speed.
Any incident where a prosecution is decided upon will be forwarded to the Crown Prosecution Service who will consider whether there is sufficient evidence to prosecute and whether or not it is in the public interest to do so.
Some constabularies operate a Driver Improvement Scheme whereby any driver who has driven carelessly, contributing to or causing an accident may be offered a one and a half days driving course of refresher training instead of prosecution.
This initiative does not affect an insurance claim, but will clearly address a probable cause of the accident. Rather than punishing the offender it ultimately reduces the likelihood of a careless driver being involved in a similar accident.
 
 
What will the police do, after the accident? 
If the accident is recorded, the police will always tell you of the result and if they propose to take any further action. Depending on the circumstances, the result may not be known for several months. If you need to enquire about any relevant matter relating to the accident, telephone the nearest station, leaving at least five working days after the date of the accident. 
 
 
 
 
 
Exclusive Deals 
 
 
 
 
 
Join our successful Affiliate Program and benefit from a working revenue stream. 
 
 
NEW:
Commercial Vehicle
Commercial Business
Commercial Taxi
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Us 
Privacy Policy | Feedback | Copyright & Legal | Company Profile | Jobs@The Insurance Centre
Recomended Group Sites 
 car insurance uk, home insurance, travel insurance, bike insurance, cheapest insurance quotes @ www.theinsurancecentre.co.uk 
 used cars, car insurance, used car prices, car prices, the best cars and deals @ www.carsource.co.uk"
 used car prices, car prices and used car price guide, the best cars and deals @ www.carprices.co.uk 
 
 
 
return to top 
