
	
	
	CIS - Critical Illness Cover
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	1 in 3 people in Britain will have cancer diagnosed at some point in their life.
	Imperial Cancer Research Fund 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Someone suffers a heart attack in this country every two minutes.
	British Heart Foundation 
	
	
	 
	100,000 men under the age 65 will die this year, but around 5 times as many will suffer a critical illness.
	Hannover Life Re. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Have you ever stopped to think what would happen if you are diagnosed with a specified illness and became too ill to work?
	
	
	 
	Could you afford the mortgage and the household bills? 
	
	
	 
	Could your family maintain the standard of living they have become accustomed to? 
	
	
	 
	You may even need to pay for healthcare or take a holiday to rest and recuperate 
	
	
	Thankfully there is a solution. CIS critical illness cover pays out a tax-free lump sum 28 days after diagnosis of a serious illness to relieve financial strain so that you can look after yourself and your family without worrying about how your finances will cope.
	
Plus 
	
	
	 
	Children between the ages of 3 and 18 are covered free of charge 
	
	
	 
	We offer discounts for non-smokers 
	
	
	 
	Critical illness cover can be included with a number of life assurance policies, giving you added peace of mind. 
	
	
	It&#146;s up to you to decide how much cover you need and how long you want the policy to run.
	
	Take a look at these example premiums: 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	10 year term
	100,000 sum assured 
	age 30 next birthday
	(monthly premium) 
	age 40 next birthday
	(monthly premium) 
	
	
	male
	smoker
	non-smoker 
	
	£22.60
	£13.80 
	
	£61.20
	£33.80 
	
	
	female
	smoker
	non-smoker 
	
	£26.60
	£16.20 
	
	£53.60
	£30.40 
	
	
	
	
	
	
WORKING TOGETHER
	As part of our commitment to the wider community, we are donating £2.00 from every critical illness policy sold to the Macmillan Cancer Relief. This charity offers much needed help and support to people who have been diagnosed with cancer, and to their families.
	
For further information please click here.
	
	
	
	
	
Tax laws may change. The information provided above is based on our understanding of the current position.
	
There is a full description of the policies referred to in the appropriate policy document. Please ask us if you would like a copy.
	
The information above relates to the products of the Co-operative Insurance Society Limited only, which is a member of the CIS marketing group and is regulated by the Personal Investment Authority.
	
Co-operative Insurance Society Limited Registered Number 3615R England. 
	
	
	
	
