
Wills and Trusts
 
Saveinsurance
 Estate Planning Services
 
Professional
Estate Planning with Weston Financial Group.
 In association
with Weston Financial Group.
 
 
 
 
Facing the
Future - Together!
 
A brief guide to
the need for Professional Estate Planning
 
as a means of
protecting yourself, your family
and your money from
the law and Intestacy (i.e. not having a valid will)
 
Estate
 Planning and Wills
 
 Why do you need to make a will? Simply because dying
 without a Will at any age can have extreme consequences for loved ones
 left behind. If you have not made a Will before you die you cannot
 guarantee that family and young dependants will receive what you
 intended to leave them, even if you are married.
 
 
 Your bank or Solicitor are popular choices but there can be hidden
 costs. If they name themselves as an executor for example, they can take
 a fee for doing so, which can be a percentage of the whole estate, and
 can run to many thousands of pounds. Don't forget you can name a friend
 or relative as executor, even if they are a beneficiary.
 
 You can write your own will from home, using a DIY kit available from
 stationers and shops. This may be your chosen route, but should be
 checked by a professional company to ensure it will do want you want it
 to do.
 
 Companies
 who specialise in Will writing, such as Weston's, can also have
 background knowledge of your finances. They can incorporate inheritance
 tax planning into your wills, resulting in potentially huge savings to
 your estate. They can also help your executors locate savings and life
 policies when the time comes and may offer their will writing services
 at low cost if you become a client.
 
 We take your instructions at one of our offices
 or in your own home 
 We offer full advice on what you should include
 We complete your will within 14 days
 We provide a full backup service thereafter
 We offer very competitive prices 
"Making
a will is something that most people never want to think about until it's too
late, but it is something that everybody should consider."
For more information, call Peter Hopkins 0113 242 1555.
 
CLICK
HERE TO READ MORE ABOUT WILLS TRUSTS AND ESTATE PLANNING
 
Introducers
 to Weston Financial Group.
 
With offices in
the North East; North West; West Midlands; East Midlands;
 
London &
Home Counties; South West and South East;
 
Regulated by
the Society of Will Writers
 
 
 
 
 
Call NOW
on 0113 242 1555
 Ask for Peter Hopkins
 
