
James Hampden Worldwide Package - Policy Wording
 
 
 
 
 
What does your insurance cover?
 
 
Guidance Notes for Assured/Insured Person(s)
 
General Exclusions
 
Section 1: Medical, Repatriation and Other Expenses
 
Section 2: Trip Cancellation and Disruption (1)
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
Section 4: Baggage and Personal Effects
 
Section 5: Money, Travel Documents and Credit Cards
 
Section 6: Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
 
General Provisions and Conditions (1)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (1)
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (2)
 
 
Section 3: Personal Accident
 
1. In no case shall the Underwriters' liability in respect of the 
Insured Person exceed in all the largest Sum Insured applicable to 
him under any one item in the schedule of benefits.
 
2. No claim shall be payable under more than one item in the schedule 
of benefits in respect of the consequences of one accident.
 
3. In the event that an accident covered hereunder should result in 
the death of the Insured Person within twelve months of the date of 
the accident and prior to the definite settlement of the compensation 
for disablement, there shall be paid instead of the latter the 
compensation payable in the case of death.
 
4. In the event of a claim the Underwriters' appointed medical 
adviser(s) shall be allowed to examine the Insured Person as often as 
may be deemed necessary.
 
5. For the purposes of this Insurance:
 
 Loss of a limb shall mean loss by physical separation of a hand at or 
above the wrist or of a foot at or above the ankle, and shall include 
total and irrecoverable loss of use of hand, arm or leg.
 
 Loss of an eye shall mean total and irrecoverable loss of sight of 
the eye.
 
 Permanent Total Disablement shall mean disablement of the Insured 
Person which prevents him from engaging in any part of his usual 
occupation for a period of twelve consecutive calendar months and 
which at the end of that time is without prospect of improvement.
 
 
Other Conditions and Limitations of Liability (3)
 
Other Exclusions (1)
 
OUR SERVICE PROMISE
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR CUSTOMERS
The policy wording is also available in one large document
for easier printing either as a
single web page or as a
PDF.
 
 
 
