
 
How To Use This Site
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How To Use This Site
 
Products: Life 
 Assurance for family / estate / mortgage protection, Critical 
 Illness for protection against being diagnosed as having a Critical 
 Illness and Income Protection 
 to replace your income following incapacity to carry out your job 
 
Get a Quote (Compare and Buy): Life 
 Assurance and Protection rates have fallen dramatically over the last 
 few years. Are you with the cheapest provider? Receive a Full 
 Search (within 24 hours) or an Express 
 Quote.
 
 
Buy Now: If you know the type of policy you need and 
 the provider, you can purchase 
 through AssureNet UK for a heavily discounted fixed fee. Savings can be 
 as much as 50%, possibly more.
 
Save Money: Find the 
 lowest cost provider. Get further savings of 25% either as a reduced 
 premium or 'Cash Back'.
 
Special Offers: Buy from us and benefit 
 from 'Premium Watch' where 
 we watch the cost of your protection in the future so you keep saving.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
