
 
 
 
Put together your own girls-only trip for a get away
Henlow Grange
Ragdale Hall
First Choice
Thomas Cook
 
 
 men-free breaks!
 by Hannah Parkin
 
For many women the idea of a holiday or short break away from men is
very tempting, and increasingly being accomplished. However, having
decided to get away it is important to focus on exactly what it is that
you wish to achieve from the trip. Who you go with and where you go, be
it alone, in a group, at home or abroad will all affect the outcome of
the holiday.
There are, of course, many different types of vacation but the one that seems to be particularly popular is the weekend away at a health spa. This offers both a physical and mental respite from everyday pressures, the best part being that it is totally up to you how healthy you make your stay. Difficult decisions such as whether to have the massage before or after the facial will come to you naturally after a while. The fasting might be a bit harder to deal with but the whole point is that there is no pressure on you to do anything.
Another positive aspect of this type of break is that it can be taken
alone, or with friends to help and encourage with the diet or
indulgences.
Many health spas have their own sites that you can visit for further
information:
- Henlow Grange
- Ragdale Hall
...or if you fancy something really special, visit the Adventure Health
Travel site where you can create
you own combo spa package virtually anywhere in the world.
Alternatively why not simply arrange your own women-only holiday. There are lots of Web sites offering bargain deals on flights such as Cheap Flights. Simply pick a destination of
your choice, rock up and find somewhere to stay when you get there. That
way you have more choice and flexibility about where you go, when you go
and what you do. Make sure you book a flight that lands during the day
though - trying to find somewhere in the middle of the night isn't all
that practical.
If the idea of arriving on some foreign shore with no where to stay
doesn't appeal, try looking at the many sites that offer last minute
package deals at knock down prices:
- Bargain Holidays
- First Choice
- Thomas Cook.
Last Frontiers and Lee's Travel both offer good deals on flights as well as package deals that might interest the more intrepid explorer. Or if you fancy a bit of culture while you're away Last Frontier organise holidays where you can develop your painting and photography skills to name but a few.
You could even organise a holiday that is tailor-made for you and your friends. If Africa appeals, Okavango Tours and Safaris could be the answer. On their Web site there
is a special section called "Holidays designed for you". You can specify
your preferred destination, the number of people you want in your group,
what sort of accommodation you'd prefer, be it tents or hotels and
whether you'd prefer a midnight safari or a daytime trek.
So go on, design your own trip of a lifetime - with or without male
companions. It's up to you.
 
 
