
 
 
	
 
 
RoyalSunAlliance - Virtual Media Centre
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNOUNCES MAJOR EXPANSION OF FAR EASTERN INVESTMENT RANGE AND CHANGES TO ITS TEAM
	 
	
	
	
	
	5th June 2000 - 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Royal & SunAlliance Investments, independently recognised as the UK’s Best Investment Management Group* for the third consecutive year, has launched two new investment funds - Japan Growth and Pacific Growth. The launches are part of the recently announced strategic expansion programme aimed at winning £8 billion in new institutional and retail business over the next five years. 
The Japan Growth Fund is managed by Jonathan Greenhill. The fund aims to provide investors with medium to long term capital growth by investing primarily in Japanese equities. A proportion of the assets may comprise convertible stocks and other permitted investments linked to Japanese equities. 
RSA Investments has also strengthened its Japanese Equities team with the appointment of Peter de Lacy, age 27, as a Fund Manager. Peter graduated from Dublin City University with a joint degree in International Marketing & Japanese and was previously a fund manager with Merrill Lynch Asset Management. 
The Pacific Growth Fund is managed by Mike Hanbury-Williams. The fund aims to provide investors with medium to long term capital growth primarily though investing in equities in the Asian Pacific region. Investment will be mainly in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan and Australia, and other developing markets in the region. A proportion of the assets may comprise convertible stocks and other permitted investments linked to equities in the region. 
Mike Hanbury-Williams also takes charge of the existing Far East Fund (which includes Japanese equities). The fund was previously managed by William Russell, who has been promoted into the new post of Director, Retail Funds, with responsibility for driving the expansion of RSA Investments’ business in the retail market. 
Commenting on the changes, Robert Matthews, Managing Director, Institutional & Retail Funds said, " This enhances the geographic coverage of our range of funds and meets the evolving needs of the investment market. We now cater for those investors who wish to determine their own weighting between Japan and the wider pacific markets.” 
"I am delighted than Peter de Lacy has joined us as he brings added depth to our Japanese team. Following his promotion, William Russell will play a key role in the management and strategic development of our retail investment business. These moves yet again underscore our strategic commitment to expanding our business while ensuring that we continue to meet the needs of all our investors.” 
For more information on any of the investment funds offered by Royal & SunAlliance Investments contact your financial adviser or ring 0500 100 333. 
* In 2000 Royal & SunAlliance Investments was awarded the title of Best UK Investment Management Group by Standard & Poor's for an unprecedented third year in succession. 
 
Editors Notes 
Jonathan Greenhill, BA, AIIMR. Associate Director, Japan Japanese Equities Jonathan obtained a degree in Economics and Political Philosophy from the University of Reading and joined the Group in 1994. Jonathan has over five years experience in Japanese equities and was recently made Head of the Japanese Desk. 
Michael Hanbury-Williams, BSc. Director, Pacific Basin Pacific Basin Equities Mike obtained a degree in Engineering from Exeter University in 1984. He started his career with Aetna Life as a mutual fund manager for five years, two of which were spent in Hong Kong. He then joined Citicorp to help set up the Asian equity sales desk in London. He joined the Group in 1990 and is now Head of the Pacific Basin Desk. 
William Russell, BA, AIIMR. Director, Retail Funds William obtained a First Degree in Economic History from Bristol University in 1990 and a postgraduate degree in Mandarin Chinese from Beijing University in 1991. He joined the Group in 1991 and spent two years on the North America Desk as an Investment Analyst, after which he joined the Far East Desk. He became Associate Director, Pacific Basin in 1997 and has now been appointed Director, Retail Funds. 
The Japan Growth Fund and Pacific Growth Fund are sub-funds of a Royal & Sun Alliance Open Ended Investment Company. 
Past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future. The value of investments and the income from them is not guaranteed and may fall as well as rise. Full written terms & conditions are available upon request. 
Royal & SunAlliance Investments is a trading name of both Royal & Sun Alliance Unit Trust Management Limited, registered in England No 2170242 (which is a member of the Royal & Sun Alliance Life & Pensions Marketing Group and regulated by the Personal Investment Authority and by IMRO), and Royal & Sun Alliance Investment Management Limited, registered No 2219464 (regulated by IMRO). The registered Office of each is St Mark's Court, Chart Way, Horsham, West Sussex RH12 1XL. 
Ref: 63/2000/UT 
 
	 
	
	
	
	Back to News Headlines
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
