
 
Critical Illness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AssureNet UK
 regulation
 providers
 contact us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 privacy policy
 terms of business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 how to use this site
 search
 glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 learn 
 more | benefits | get 
 a quote 
 
 
 
 Thanks to improved lifestyles and medical advances 
 we are living longer and have a greater chance of surviving critical illnesses. 
 In the unfortunate event of you becoming critically ill you may need time 
 off work for treatment and recovery, or you may not be able to go back to 
 work at all. Critical Illness plans are designed to pay out a cash benefit 
 if you are diagnosed with one of a number of specified critical illness 
 conditions. You can set up your plan with either a fixed level of cover 
 or a reducing level of cover over the duration of the plan. Depending on 
 how you set up your plan, the benefit can be taken as either a cash lump 
 sum, a regular income or a combination of both. Critical Illness cover can 
 also be added to life assurance plans as an option. This typically works 
 on the basis that the benefit amount is paid upon the earlier of death or 
 a critical illness and is cheaper than taking out two policies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is 
 the website of AssureNet UK, an independent company providing an information, 
 comparative quote and execution service for UK Life and Protection Products. 
 This site is not regulated by any authority nor has it been approved by 
 any member of a regulated body. The PIA do not regulate Mortgage Protection 
 Cover, Family Income Benefit Plans, Critical Illness, or Level Term Assurance. 
 The services provided are only for residents of the UK. View AssureNet's 
 terms & conditions and privacy policy. AssureNet UK, PO Box 28830, London 
 SW13 8DN. Copyright © 2001 AssureNet UK | Last modified: June 24, 2001 | 
 Contact: info@assurenetuk.com 
 
 
