 
	
	lloyds.com: Terms and Conditions: Bermuda 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
	
	Login 
	 
 
 
	
	 Help 
	 
 
 
	
	 Search 
	 
 
 
	
	 About lloyds.com 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 Market Finder 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Market Intelligence 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Country Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Industry Briefings 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Reference 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	Contact List 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	Homepage: 
	 
	
	About lloyds.com: 
	 
	
	Terms and Conditions: 
	 
	
	
	North America: Terms and Conditions: Bermuda
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	
	 	
	 	 
	 	Terms and Conditions: Bermuda 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
 	
 	
	 	
	 
	
	 	 
 	
 	
	 	
 	
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 1. The Website and Our Services
1.1 These terms and conditions apply to registered users. Please read these terms and conditions of use carefully. 
1.2 To register to use the services ("our services") that lloyds.com Limited ("we", "us", or "our") provides on or through this website (the "Website"), you must have the legal capacity to do so and be at or over the statutory minimum age of consent in your jurisdiction of residence. 
1.3 "You" includes you, your employer or any other person that you represent or for whom you act, unless the context otherwise requires. 
1.4 By ticking the box to confirm that you have read and agreed to these terms and conditions: 
1.4.1 You acknowledge that you accept these terms and conditions;
1.4.2 You are bound by these terms and conditions;
1.4.3 You represent and warrant that you have the legal capacity to use our services;
1.4.4 You represent and warrant that you are at or over the statutory minimum age of consent in your jurisdiction of incorporation/residence; and
1.4.5 You represent and warrant that you are not a private customer, as defined in clause 1.8 below. 
1.5 A person who has neither accepted nor been deemed to have accepted these terms and conditions has no right to enforce any of these terms or conditions. 
1.6 You consent to the processing (including international transfer) of personal information about you as described in "Privacy and Security". If you give us any information which identifies any individual other than yourself, you will do so only with that individual's consent to our processing of the information as described in "Privacy and Security".
1.7 We do not charge you to use our services on the Website; we will, however, charge some insurance providers. For the avoidance of doubt, any fees or costs charged to you by your Internet service provider and/or telephone company for connection to and use of the Internet remain payable by you. 
1.8 The services we provide under these terms and conditions are for your use only, or for the use of your employer if you are acting in the course of your employment. Our intention is to provide services only for insurance and reinsurance brokers, insurance intermediaries, reinsurance cedants, risk managers and commercial insurance buyers. Currently we do not provide services for private customers (that is, natural persons acting otherwise than solely for the purposes of their business). 
1.9 These terms and conditions apply to the use of this Website and to our services, which include the provision of news and information about commercial insurance and of our "Market Finder" service. Market Finder is intended to allow you to specify the type of insurance in which you are interested; we will then provide you with details of specialist carriers and brokers ("providers") who provide cover of that type. Please note that:
1.9.1 The details provided to you are not exhaustive - there may be other providers who offer such products.
1.9.2 The details provided to you have not been independently verified by us.
1.9.3 We are making no representation that the providers whose details you will see will be able or willing to provide cover for any specific risk.
1.9.4 We are making no representation that the products of any provider whose details you will see are best suited to cover any potential risk. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 
1.10 The information, including any insurance or finance related
information, viewable by you on this Website is provided for information
only, and does not constitute an offer to sell (or the solicitation of an
offer to purchase) insurance, nor does it constitute advice of any kind
whatsoever. While the information contained on this Website has been
compiled in good faith, no representation is made as to its completeness or
accuracy. We may make changes to this Website that we feel are appropriate
from time to time (see Section 5, below). 
1.11 You may be able to link to other websites by means of hyperlinks
published on this Website. These other websites are owned and operated by
third parties. The fact that we include hyperlinks in this Website does not
mean that we approve of, or endorse, or have any connection with any third party websites to which they will link you, the owners or operators of
those websites or the content of those websites. We accept no liability
for any statements, information, products or services that are published on
or may be accessible through any websites owned or operated by third
parties or for any action you may take as a result of using the Website.
Those websites may also be subject to separate legal terms and conditions.
Providers may be subject to separate regulation and are solely responsible
for satisfying such regulatory requirements, including but not limited to
those of the General Insurance Standards Council and Lloyd's. lloyds.com
does not represent or warrant that any provider you deal with is fully
authorised and compliant with all relevant laws and regulations in any
relevant jurisdiction. 
1.12 It is for you to choose between the various services and products
offered on the Website by providers and other third parties. Please note
that the ranking of the various services and products presented to, or
accessible by, you on the Website in no way indicates relative suitability
for your own particular requirements; any ranking is by reference to the
amount of information given to us by providers relative to each other.
1.13 We accept no responsibility or any liability whatsoever for the terms
applying to any insurance contract entered into with any provider or for any
problems that may arise in the operation of your insurance. 
1.14 All rights in this Website and in the content published on this
Website, unless otherwise indicated, are owned either by us or made
available to us under licence by third parties. This Website and all
content published on this Website, unless otherwise indicated, are protected
by copyright in the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions. All trademarks
and devices displayed on this Website, unless otherwise indicated, are owned
by us and/or our licensors, and may be registered in many jurisdictions
across the world. Save as provided below, any use or reproduction of these
trademarks and/or devices is prohibited. 
1.15 Subject to any prohibitions or restrictions stated in third-party websites accessible via hyperlinks in the Website over which we have no control
whatsoever, you may view the content published on this Website, and you are
welcome to print hard copies of material on it for your personal or internal
business purposes. All other copying is strictly prohibited. 
1.16 We give no guarantees and accept no responsibility or any liability
whatsoever for:
1.16.1 Finding insurance counterparties for you;
1.16.2 Avoiding undue, unnecessary or costly delays in exchanging,
completing or executing insurance policies or contracts; or
1.16.3 The performance, whether or not proper and complete, of insurance
policies or contracts. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 
1.17 This Website is provided "as is" and we give no warranties in
respect thereof. Specifically, but without limitation, we do not warrant
that:
- You will be able to use this Website or that it will continue to be made
available in its current or any other form;
- This Website or any software or material of whatsoever nature available on
or downloaded from it will be free from viruses or defects, compatible with
your equipment or fit for any purpose. It is your responsibility to use
suitable antivirus software on any software or other material that you may
download from this Website and to ensure the compatibility of such software
or material with your equipment and software; or
- Any content or information published on this Website is accurate or
complete. The editorial content of any other website to which you have
gained access by means of any hyperlink published on the Website remains the
responsibility of the provider of that other website.
1.18 Any warranties which would otherwise be implied by law (including,
without limitation, warranties as to satisfactory quality, fitness for
purpose or skill and care) are hereby excluded. 
1.19 We will not (subject only to the exclusion provisions contained in
clause 1.20 below) be liable to you, whether for negligence, breach of
contract or otherwise, for any loss or damage of whatsoever nature suffered
by you (including, without limitation, direct loss or damage, indirect or
consequential loss or damage, loss of goodwill, loss of business
opportunity, loss of data or loss of profit), arising from:
- Any computer virus or other bug transmitted through this Website;
- Your use or inability to use this Website at any time and for any reason
and any error in the provision of this Website; 
- Your use of and/or reliance on other websites to which you have gained
access by means of hyperlinks published on this Website;
- Any inaccurate or out-of-date information published on this Website;
- Your failure to comply with any law or regulation that is applicable to
you; or
- Your reliance on any information published on this Website. You should
note specifically that information might be published on this Website about
insurance that may not be appropriate for your specific purposes or
circumstances. 
1.20 Nothing in these terms and conditions shall operate to exclude or
restrict our liability for either fraud, or death or personal injury
resulting from our, or our employees', negligence. 
1.21 We do not represent or warrant that the Website will be available for
access all the time or at any time on a continuous, uninterrupted basis. In
particular, but without limitation, please note that:
1.21.1 It may on occasions be necessary to close or suspend provision
of any of the services on the Website for the purposes of repair,
maintenance or development;
1.21.2 Access to the Website or operation of any of the services may be
interrupted by circumstances beyond our control; and
1.21.3 The ability to access lists of insurers will not be available for
brief periods during regular updates of the Website. We do not accept
liability for any inconvenience or loss of cover that you may suffer as a
result of interruption of the service.
1.22 Where there is any inconsistency between these terms and conditions and
any product documentation, associated documentation or other areas of the
Website, these terms and conditions will take precedence. 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 
1.23 The services we provide on the Website do not include, and do not
purport to include giving advice of any kind whatsoever; providing,
arranging, explaining, advising on, promoting or advertising investment
products or life insurance of any type whatsoever; acting as insurance
brokers or intermediaries, whether or not independent from any insurance
provider; acting as agents of any kind for you or for any provider;
providing brokerage or intermediary services of any kind whatsoever or
assuming any of the duties of any such persons under any applicable legal
system; obtaining, arranging or maintaining insurance cover for and on
behalf of any person; handling insurance premiums, indemnities, claims or
payments of any type whatsoever between insurance counterparties; carrying
out any business such as risk analyses, administration, claims adjustment or
claims payment; giving notification of the expiry of insurance policies;
providing insurance policies, cover notes, confirmations, quotations,
receipts or other documents of any type whatsoever, or ensuring that such
documents are provided or retained within certain time limits or in
accordance with any relevant terms and conditions; investigating the need
for insurance of any person; checking, verifying or investigating the
suitability for you of insurance products or providers for any person;
guaranteeing the reliability or credit worthiness of insurance providers;
checking, verifying or investigating the accuracy of any given description
or the availability of any given product apparently available from any given
provider; checking, verifying or investigating the conformity of any
description of risk to be selected by you with any insurance needs of any
person or the conformity of any product to the description of risk selected
by you; acting on behalf of, in the best interests of or with the specific
needs in mind of any person; ensuring that any relevant terms and conditions
or any specific provisions are expressly read or understood by any person;
informing and notifying any person of any changes, amendments, modifications
or new terms and conditions; ensuring that lists of insurance providers or
products accessible by you on the Website are complete, representative,
exhaustive, reliable or suitable for you in any way whatsoever, although of
course we do emphasise to providers the need to strive as far as possible
for accuracy in relation to the information they provide; or guaranteeing
the accuracy of the content of other third party websites accessible via
hyperlinks in the Website. 
1.24 We reserve the right to prohibit any activities of any nature or
description that, in our sole discretion, might tend to damage or injure our
commercial reputation or goodwill or the reputations or goodwill of any of
the providers or subscribers to this Website. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 2. Contacting Each Other
2.1 Details on how to contact us are available by clicking on "Contact
Us".
2.2 If we need to contact you in relation to your use of the Website, we may
contact you by email, telephone or post, or by such other methods as may be
developed. 
2.3 The latest details you have given us will be used. We will inform you
if any of our contact details change by posting a notice on the Website. We
also need you to tell us if your name, address, telephone, email or any
other details change. 
2.4 If you contact us via email, you cannot assume that it has reached us
until we return an email acknowledging receipt. 
2.5 When you contact us by telephone or the Internet (including email), we
will check your identity from the security details and password which you
will have given us when you set up security (see Section 3, below). 
2.6 We may, where it is permissible to do so, record telephone calls you
make to us so that we have a record of your instructions. We may also
listen to calls to help us monitor the quality of our service. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 3. Security
3.1 You should be aware that the Internet, being an open network, is not
secure. If you choose to send any electronic communications by means of
this Website (whether by means of email, posted messages on the Website or
through forms made available on this Website), you do so at your own risk.
We do not guarantee that such communications will not be intercepted or
changed or that they will reach the intended recipient safely. 
3.2 We use reasonable endeavours to ensure that this Website is reasonably
secure and to prevent unauthorised access to our services. However, we do
not guarantee that any information displayed on this Website has not been
interfered with without our consent. 
3.3 In order to ensure that this Website is reasonably secure in relation to
the information you give us and to your use of our service, we may establish
security procedures with you by post, telephone or the Internet. 
3.4 We will ask you to provide a password when you register. You must enter
your password in order to be able to use all our services and to access
information contained in messages posted by you or addressed to you. Your
password also helps to restrict other users from gaining access to
information regarding your use of the Website. However, we do not guarantee
that other users will not be able to access, interfere with or intercept
such information. 
3.5 Whenever you enter your password, by doing so you represent and warrant
that you are a duly registered user and that your registered information is
still true, accurate and up-to-date. This will also help us to keep you
up-to-date with changes to the Website, or with news analysis, which may be
of interest to you. If necessary, click on "Your Details" to update your
registered information. 
3.6 Subject to clause 3.7 below, you must keep your security details and
password secret, and we accept no responsibility or any liability for any
breaches of security as a result of a failure to do so. If you make written
records of any security details or password, you must disguise them so that
they cannot easily be understood by anyone else. 
3.7 You must notify us as soon as possible if:
3.7.1 You think that someone else knows your security details or
password; 
3.7.2 You have forgotten your security details or password; or 
3.7.3 You think that someone else is trying to access your details.
Until you do notify us, you will remain responsible for any messages that we
receive from you and act upon, even if they were not sent by you. 
3.8 Notwithstanding clause 3.7 above, if you have acted fraudulently or have
been negligent, you will be responsible for all losses you incur. 
 
3.9 We can ask you to confirm messages in writing if we feel this is
appropriate. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 3.10 We can refuse, in our absolute discretion, to act on a message if for
any reason we think: 
3.10.1 The message was not given by you;
3.10.2 The message was not clear;
3.10.3 Acting on the message might cause us to breach any applicable law,
regulation or contractual duty;
3.10.4 Our services are being, or have been, used for, or in furtherance
of, any illegal purpose by you or someone else; or
3.10.5 Our services are being accessed, or the message was sent, from a
jurisdiction in which we are not authorised to carry on business.
3.11 When you use our services you must ensure that your computer and modem
comply with any requirements we tell you about from time to time on the
Website. You must also follow any procedures and instructions contained in
any user guide we give to you or contained on the Website from time to time.
3.12 You must tell us as soon as you can if you find any failure, delay or
error in our services, especially in the sending or receiving of messages.
Our records of your Internet messages will be conclusive unless there is a
clear mistake. 
3.13 Our services are intended for customers in the UK. Accessing the
services from outside the UK may be against the law in the jurisdiction
concerned. Nothing on the Website amounts to an invitation to you to use
the services of the Website or to purchase products if to do so would be in
breach of any applicable laws or regulations. 
. . .
4. Cessation of Business
4.1 We reserve the right unilaterally to terminate at any time the provision
of our services to you and to deny you access to our services immediately.
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 5. Changes to These Terms and Conditions
5.1 We reserve the right unilaterally to amend these terms and conditions.
5.2 You will be deemed to have accepted any changes to these terms and
conditions on the first occasion when you visit the Website after details of
such changes have been released on it. 
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 6. Governing Law
6.1 These terms and conditions, and all matters arising from or connected
with them, are governed by the law of England and Wales.
. . .
7. Governing Language
These terms and conditions are drawn up in the English language. If these
terms and conditions are translated into another language, in the event of a
conflict or an inconsistency arising between the English language text and
the other language text, the former prevails.
. . . 
8. Jurisdiction
8.1 The courts of England have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute,
controversy or claim arising from or connected with these terms and
conditions, including one regarding the existence, validity or termination
of these terms and conditions or the consequences of their nullity.
 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 . . . 
	 
	 
	 9. Complaints
9.1 Should you have reason to complain about any aspect of our service,
please contact us giving as many details as possible using "Contact Us".
Our address is: One Lime Street, London, EC3M 7HA. Our telephone number is: +44 (0)20 7327 5130. We will attempt to
acknowledge your complaint within five business days, while conducting a
thorough investigation into the circumstances. 
. . .
10. Severability
10.1 If any provision of these terms and conditions shall be unlawful, void
or for any reason unenforceable, that provision shall be deemed severable
from these terms and conditions and shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of any remaining provisions of these terms and conditions. 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Contact us 
 
 
 
 Terms 
 and Conditions 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 and Security 
	 
 
 
 Site Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © lloyds.com Limited 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
