
FEDs - Employee Benefits - PIFC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PIFC Jade Pension Scheme
(This scheme is no longer available from fiscal year 2001/2002) 
 
 
 
A unique scheme set up in 1990 to enable delegates (from Japan, Korea, China and other Far Eastern countries) 
to join a pension arrangement at no extra cost (by utilising National Insurance contribution rebates). 
Benefits can be taken even if retiring outside to the UK. Several thousand members at more than 700
 UK-based Far Eastern companies have already joined.
Because of the implementation of the UK / Korea and UK / Japan Social Security Conventions, 
we will no longer market the Scheme to new members from fiscal year 2001/2002. 
People who have not joined this scheme and have been paying National Insurance
 before the Convention was implemented, can claim an earnings-related pension from the State.
 More detail is available from www.dss.gov.uk or please write to your nearest Benefit Agency office.
We will continue to provide customer service for existing Jade members and, for those who continue to make National Insurance contributions, Department for Work & Pensions (formerly Department of Social Security (DSS)) lump sum rebates will be paid into their own pension account currently administered by Alba Life.
Pension Claim
Contact Detail
Help from PIFC
Pension Claim
Contact information
We will write to members once they have reached Retirement age. 
We will write to the last contact address we have received from members. 
Therefore please let us know if we need to update your address.
Retirement age
The current retirement age is 65 (State Retirement age). You can transfer your fund to another provider; however you can not take our your benefits until age 60 at the earliest but you can defer them until age 75 at the latest.
Benefit Payable 
The amount of benefit payable will be dependent upon the total Rebates received by the Fund, how long they have been invested, the length of time to retirement and the performance of the PIFC Jade Far Eastern and General Pension Fund. The pension fund is used to purchase an Annuity which produces the annual pension. Annuity rates change on a regular basis and depend upon interest rates, gilt yields, and the age of the member on the date that benefits are taken.
The pension will be payable to members as an annual lifetime income starting at Retirement age. For exceptional cases, when the fund is below a certain level, a cash lump sum called a "Trivial Pension” will be payable to members in lieu of an annuity. The rules regarding "Trivial Pension” can be amended each year. Please remember that the pension payable will be taxed as earned income at your highest marginal rate.
Documents to claim your pension
	
- Annuity or Triviality Claim form (will be arranged by PIFC)
	
- Birth Certificate
	
- Copy of Passport
	
- Original Policy Schedule (if this has been lost or destroyed, you will need to complete an "Indemnity" form.)
	
Spouse’s Benefits
If a member dies after retirement, his/her spouse should continue 
to receive an annual pension to the value of half of the member’s pension, 
payable for the lifetime of the spouse. Or, if the member dies before reaching 
retirement age and is married, the full value of the pension fund accumulated up 
until the date of death of the member will be available to purchase a spouse’s 
pension payable for the lifetime of the spouse.
Documents required for a Spouse Pension Claim
	
- Spouse Benefit Claim Form (will be arranged by PIFC)
	
- Birth Certificate (or Married Certificate)
	
- Death Certificate
	
- Original Policy Schedule (if this has been lost or destroyed, you will need to complete "Form of Indemnity" form.)
Contact Detail
PIFC Benefit Consultants plc
International Division
Dresden House
72 King William Street
London EC4N 7HR
Tel: 020-7283-3232
Fax: 020-7929-2619
e-mail:japan.desk@pifc.com
Alba Life Limited
Customer Services Department
Britannic Court
50 Bothwell Street
Glasgow G2 6HR
Tel: 0141-248-2000
Fax: 0141-223-6000
DLIBJ Asset Management International Ltd
Bracken House
One Friday Street
London EC4M 9JA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PIFC are regulated by the
 Financial Services Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
