
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Is digital
 music the
 format of
 the future?
 
 
 
 MP3.com
 
UBL
 
XingTech
 
 
 
 
 
 
 mp3 mania
 by Michael Alverez 
 
It's attracted artists as diverse as the Beastie Boys and Tom Petty, and its very existence may potentially revolutionise the way we listen to and purchase music. It's called MP3 and it's coming your way.
 
MP3 (or MPEG 1, Audio Layer Level Three) is a digital audio compression technology that allows audio files of near CD-quality to be created, but in a fraction of the space ordinarily required. Typically 1Mb is equal to around 1 minute of music.
 
In its short life so far, MP3 has established itself as the de facto standard for downloadable music, but the format is disliked by many in the record industry as because it allows for easy distribution of illegal copies of copyright protected music.
It's already receiving competition too - even Microsoft have felt the need to create a 'streaming' division, devoted to online distribution and viewing of music and audio.
 
Getting into the MP3 party... 
 
First up, you'll need an MP3 player. By far the most popular player for Windows platforms is WinAMP. Similarly, its equivalent MacAMP serves the Macintosh. 
 
You've got the player - where's the music? 
 
Despite several record companies being cautious of the format, many artists have embraced it with open arms. One of the most vocal supporters of the format, Chuck D of Public Enemy, has even taken it as far as to release their latest album "There's A Poison Goin' On" via online download for a small fee.
Other artists quick to take up on the format include Tori Amos and Alanis Morrissette, whose "5½ Weeks Tour" site features hand-picked MP3 tracks by each artist leading up to the tour, and will premiere live tracks throughout the tour itself.
 
Finally, another new development the format has spawned is a new type of portable player. Running around 60 minutes of music from a SmartCard (such as those found in digital cameras), products such as Diamond's Rio player are finding themselves popular with many - the lack of moving parts and lightweight compact size make it one of this season's hot gadgets.
 
 
 
 
