
Links - PIFC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Welcome to the PIFC Group
 
 
 
The following links are to resources we think you will find interesting and informative. You can link to these sites by clicking on the underlined title.
 
 
 
 
PIFC Stakeholder
Visit the PIFC stakeholder web site for employers as featured in the Sunday Times. PIFC represent the pensions consultancy industry on the Government's Stakeholder Advisory Board. The web site has been designed for employers as an introduction to Stakeholder pension schemes. 
 
Inland Revenue
Definitive source of news and information on tax and national insurance matters in the United Kingdom. The Inland Revenue have a specialist site providing impartial information and government links on the subject of stakeholder pensions. 
 
Department of Social Security
The Department of Social Security (DSS) helps to promote financial security in retirement. If you want the latest information on national insurance contributions and pensions, this is a quick way to find out what you need to know. Background material and up-to-date news provide a good resource, and there are lots of online pension leaflets available. 
 
Financial Times
A high quality source of business and financial information. 
 
BBC Business
Information and news on business, markets, economy, companies and e-commerce. 
 
 
 
 Financial 
 Services Authority
 The FSA regulates the financial services industry and 
 aims to maintain efficient, orderly and clean financial 
 markets and help retail consumers achieve a fair deal. 
 There is a section on pensions that includes stakeholder 
 pensions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 National 
 Association of Pension Funds
 The National Association of Pension Funds (NAPF) is the 
 leading organisation providing representation and other 
 services for those involved in designing, operating, investing 
 funds and advising occupational pension schemes in the 
 UK. The NAPF seeks to" foster an environment in which 
 employer-sponsored pension and benefit provision can flourish". 
 
 
 
 
 
 Society 
 of Pension Consultants
 SPC is the representative body for the providers of advice 
 and services needed to establish and operate occupational 
 and personal pension schemes and related benefit provision. 
 SPCs aim is to draw upon the knowledge and experience 
 of Members so as to contribute to legislation and other 
 general developments affecting pension and related benefit 
 provision. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PIFC are regulated by the
 Financial Services Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
