
 
Friends Provident Announcement
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
- Reports & Accounts
	
- Announcements
	
	Current
	Archive
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
- Key Financial Information
	
- Strategy & Key Strengths
	
- Shareholder Services
	
- Home
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Friends Provident 'AA-' Ratings Affirmed Following Announcement of Proposed Acquisition
 
 
 
3 May, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
Publication date: 03-May-2002
 Analyst: Mark Button, London (44) 20-7847-7045; Paul Waterhouse, London (44) 20-7847-7084
LONDON (Standard & Poor's) May 3, 2002--Standard & Poor's said today it affirmed its double-'A'-minus long-term counterparty credit and insurer financial strength ratings on U.K.-based life insurer Friends Provident Life and Pensions Ltd. (Friends Provident). The affirmation follows the announcement on April 30, 2002, of the proposed acquisition of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group PLC's (R&SA) asset management business by Friends Ivory & Sime PLC (FIS). The outlook is stable.
    
"The transaction will enhance the business and earnings diversity of the Friends Provident group, and is in line with both Friends Provident's stated strategy and Standard & Poor's expectations," said Mark Button, an associate director at Standard & Poor's Financial Services Ratings Group in London. "The acquisition will, however, reduce capital adequacy over the short term, owing to the significant value of goodwill acquired relative to net assets acquired." 
    
The reduction in the Friends Provident group's capital adequacy, according to Standard & Poor's risk-based capital model, adds to the capital pressures experienced across the industry during 2001, owing primarily to volatile equity markets. The group's high capital quality, including its low financial leverage, continues to support Friends Provident's very strong capitalization. 
    
The ratings on Friends Provident reflect its very strong capitalization, excellent ability to access additional capital resources, very strong and diversified business position, and strong operating performance.
"Standard & Poor's expects management's financial strategies to remain consistent with the current ratings on Friends Provident," said Mr. Button. Consequently, capital adequacy, financial leverage, and interest coverage are expected to be managed to very strong levels. New business volumes are expected to grow significantly as Friends Provident leverages its enhanced insurer financial strength and competitive advantages.
    
A complete list of rating actions is available to subscribers of RatingsDirect, Standard & Poor's Web-based credit analysis system, at www.ratingsdirect.com. They are also available on Standard & Poor's public Web site at www.standardandpoors.com; under Rating Actions, select Newly Released Ratings Listings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Register for our e-mail alert service 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I am a ...
 Analyst
 Customer
 Employee
 Journalist
 Shareholder
 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Announcement search: 
 
 
 
Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Any 
 
 All 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issued by Friends Provident plc 
 
 
 
 
