
	
	
	the [ watchout ] advice service
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Specialist advice on all aspects of student insurance, including contents / general belongings, travel / gap year, computer equipment and more. We provide a range of policies with best buy recommendations according to individual needs with quotations and the option to purchase online. UK / Great Britain only.
	
PLEASE NOTE: This site is designed for a frames based browser, as you are not current using frames you are only able to browse our site from the sitemap (click here), also note that you will only be able to purchase if your browser has cookies enabled. For alternative methods of contacting us please refer to our contact details (click here).
	
Site maintained and developed by Enigma.
	
	
	
Student insurance Watch Out watchout advice service best buys contents student travel gap year standalone items of value computer equipment insurance, musical instrument camera contact lens failure to complete the course, immediate medical insurance, buying a student house for letting. Summit Insurance Services Limited GSS graduate and student services, exam failure, course abandon, private health, insurance on campus. England, england, britain, Britain.
	
	
nav
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	the watchout advice service
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Belongings 
 &#150; covers your personal property. 
 
- Items 
 of value 
 &#150; 
 extra cover for those special possessions eg. PCs, contact lenses and 
 photographic/video equipment, at home and on the move. 
 
- Medical 
 &#150; protects you from the disruption of illness or accident. 
 
- Travel 
 &#150; 
 covers you for holidays as well as longer trips overseas and gap years. 
 
- Course 
 completion 
 &#150; 
 unforeseen problems can prevent you from finishing your course eg. illness 
 either affecting you or a parent; cover yourself.
	
- Insurance for Landlords and Colleges
	
 
Insurance? 
 A bit dull maybe but you know you need it &#150; that's why you're here; 
 and if you still need convincing that the investment is worthwhile, click 
 here to go to our Horror Stories 
 section and read some good reasons why you should make sure you're covered.
 
 watchout has hand picked the policies it considers to be the best 
 from reputed companies to try to get you the cover you need at a price 
 that's right.
 
 Unlike some insurers or their tied agents who just offer you their own 
 policies, watchout offers you a choice of policies from a range 
 of insurers.
 
 Our website tells you all you need to know &#150; the insurance policies 
 we recommend, what they cover, what they cost and how to buy them and 
 will give you an instant quote. Just click one of the tabs on the left 
 for full details on each type of insurance.
 
 If you still have questions, click on Help 
 and you'll go straight to our Frequently Asked Questions (or FAQ) page 
 which will give you the information you need.
 
 If you need to contact us please click on About 
 & Contact to send an e-mail, fax or letter.
	
	
 
 
 
 
 We 
 belong to the Which? Webtrader Code of Practice
 
 Payment 
 transactions are encrypted for your security click 
 here for details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy Policy, Terms and Conditions 
 
 
	
	
 
 
	
	 
	 
 
 
	
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
