 
 
 
The world of racing sailing is being turned upside down by a new generation of boats
Bandol Events
Laser 5000
49er Sailing
International Sailing Federation
 
 
 olympic sailing
goes extreme
 by David McNamara
top 49er crew
 
The world of racing sailing is being turned upside down by a new generation of boats, and at the forefront of these new designs is the Australian conceived 49er. In its first year of production, this radical craft was selected to be a new event at the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games.
Only 5 metres long, the 49er has a shape that is reminiscent of the Starship Enterprise, turning heads wherever they are raced. The boats carry a massive sail area, including colourful spinnakers emblazened with sponsors' logos, offering one of the most dramatic billboards ever created. However, it's when the boats hit the water that they really start to get extreme.
Two people crew each boat, hanging on wires from the mast, standing on large wings on the sides of the boat. Unstable and incredibly difficult to sail, 49ers make just getting away from the dock an exciting spectator sport. Then as the power of the wind starts to accelerate them, the 49ers start to skim across the water at well over twice the speed of normal boats. In only a light breeze, they fly across the surface of the water, leaving only a small wake and a little spray behind them... and once the wind starts to blow, they fly!
One hundred and twenty 49ers from thirty different countries gathered in Bandol on the south coast of France for their World Championships in May this year, in an event that turned into a battle between three continents. Australian pure bred skiff sailors met newcomers to this extreme side of sailing from Europe and North America, and the battle is currently just going a shade the Aussies' way, but it ain't over yet, and you can be sure the competition is going to get tougher. 
Sailing these boats has more in common with extreme surfing than traditional sailing. 49ers absolutely fly upwind in a breeze - just staying stood on the side of the boat can be a real issue. These rocket ships race up the front of waves like a power boat, launching themselves into the air at the crest and soaring metres above the water, with both crew braced on the side of the wing for the landing. 
However, the real extreme sailing comes downwind. At the top mark, heave up the huge colourful spinnaker and things start to get dangerous. Skimming along at over 25 knots, they are now jumping off the backs of the waves, landing in the next wave in a cloud of spray with a ferocity that threatens to bury the front of the boat into the water and catapult the crews away from the boat. Braced in footstraps at the very back of the wing, the crews use all their experience to keep the boat powering through the wave sets, with forcing in the spinnaker and rig that far exceeds anything they can counteract with just their weight. It becomes a battle of cunning and skill against the sheer brute force of the wind, flinging the boats downwind.
This is about to become a massive spectator sport, as the boats line up for the start of the Olympic Games in front of Sydney Opera House. The drama of the spectacle is going to leave worldwide television audiences breathless and make stars out of the few elite sailors who have conquered this exhilarating new boat.
 
 
