
 
 
	
 
 
RoyalSunAlliance - Virtual Media Centre
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE LAUNCHES WHERETOLIVE.CO.UK - THE UK's FIRST HOME MOVE AND IMPROVE WEBSITE 
	 
	
	
	
	
	11th July 2000 - 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Royal & SunAlliance Property Services (RSAPS) today launched www.wheretolive.co.uk the UK's first website offering a unique combination of thousands of homes to buy or rent and hundreds of ways to improve them. 
Updated hourly, www.wheretolive.co.uk holds details of around 30,000 properties available for sale, rent or auction across the UK. Set in a friendly magazine format, it is easy to navigate around and features help and ideas on everything from gardening and home safety advice to decorating and interior design, where Royal & SunAlliance have teamed up with Granada TV's Better Homes. 
Royal & SunAlliance is the largest property auctioneer in the UK and includes a section which aims to dispel the mystery surrounding what goes on in an auction room. How to buy and sell a home at auction, where and when they take place and a separate search for auction properties all feature on the site. 
The site is not just for people who are thinking of moving. For those who want local information about schools, crime rates, council tax, property price comparisons and their local Member of Parliament, the site will also prove extremely useful. 
Developed following extensive consumer research by Royal & SunAlliance, www.wheretolive.co.uk is part of an ongoing programme to continually improve customer service. Research showed that although people still value the face to face service provided by estate agents, many home movers find the Internet an advantage particularly for accessing information twenty four hours a day, seven days a week. 
Commenting, James Chapman, Operations Director of Royal & SunAlliance's estate agency network, said: "Our research and expertise told us that people expect a higher level of service from their estate agents now and we have developed www.wheretolive.co.uk in direct response to customer needs. In the United States, the majority of potential house buyers begin their search on the Internet because quite rightly, they want to look at what is available on the market in their own time and at their leisure. We believe that www.wheretolive.co.uk is the most in depth site for house moving and home improvement on the web. 
The auction room is becoming increasingly popular for people to buy and sell residential properties, we believe that the information and advice on wheretolive.co.uk will help to continue this trend,” concluded James Chapman. ends 
For further media information, please contact: 
James Chapman	Ali Berry Royal & SunAlliance	Royal & SunAlliance Tel. 	0151 237 2300	Tel: 	0151 239 4257 Mob.	0850 492 813	Mob. 	0771 434 2801 
Janine Goodison 	Lucy Biggin Royal & SunAlliance	Shandwick International Tel. 	0151 239 4012	Tel: 	0207 905 2571 Mob:	0771 368 4436	Mob: 	07939 116 1571 
Notes to Editors: 
Royal & SunAlliance Property Services 
Royal & SunAlliance Property Services (RSAPS) comprises 430 estate agency offices operating under 12 well-known local names throughout the UK. In 1999, RSAPS handled over 60,000 property transactions, representing total house sales of over £5bn. 
The 12 local trading names and locations are: Allen & Harris	 West, Scotland, Northern Ireland, South Wales Bagshaws Residential East Midlands Barnard Marcus	 London Brown & Merry	 Home Counties Fox & Sons South East Gribble Booth & Taylor South West Jones & Chapman North West Manners & Harrison North East Roger Platt Home Counties Shipways West Midlands Swetenhams	 North West and North Wales William H. Brown Yorkshire, East Anglia, East Midlands,Home Counties 
RSAPS offers a complete property service to buyers and sellers including estate agency and free, independent mortgage information. RSAPS also has a national network of land and new homes centres and residential lettings offices. RSAPS is the UK’s largest auctioneer of residential property (based on number of lots sold) and one of the UK’s leading asset managers. 
Royal & SunAlliance Property Services Limited is a representative only of the Royal & Sun Alliance Life & Pensions Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Personal Investment Authority, solely for life assurance, pensions and collective scheme business, and by IMRO. 
 
	 
	
	
	
	Back to News Headlines
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
