
car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Car insurance uk, free online quotes for home, travel and bike. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Choose...
Motor
Home
Bike
Travel
Health
 
 
 
 
 Insurance Products 
 
 
Motor 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Home 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Travel 
 
Quick Quote 
 
Insurance Basics 
 
Quote Checklist 
 
Cost Reduction Tips 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
Vehicle 
 
Business 
 
Taxi 
 
 
 
Motorbike 
 
Quick Quote 
 
 
 
Health 
 
Life Term 
 
Critical Illness 
 
 
 
Other Services 
 
Competition 
 
News 
 
Recommended Buys 
 
Links 
 
Insurance Fun 
 
About Us 
 
 
 
 
 
Storm Damage-Latest Press Release
An Insurance Perspective 
 
The recent atrocious weather has left insurers facing an enormous bill of at least 250 million pounds. This figure could well rise to almost a billion pounds as insurers are paying the cost of accommodating homeowners elsewhere until their properties can be repaired. Despite the government issuing over a hundred flood warnings nationwide, an incredible amount of damage has been caused by water. It is almost miraculous that no one has died or been seriously injured because of this crisis.
Places such as Leeds and York have not seen such flooding and devastation in centuries. Damage to carpets, curtains and furnishings are usually the first expenses that insurers will have to incur. However in the South of England, some towns have suffered a persistent overwhelming downpour that has left some buildings with extensive structural damage. As if this was not enough, 100's of cars have been written off and 1000's more damaged by water and mud. The full extent of insurance payouts will not be established for weeks as they carefully assess the inundation of claims.
 Furthermore, big business in London such as banks, communication networks and even judicial systems were all affected. Commuters were unable to travel into London as transport systems were blocked and train networks failed. Big business's have cover for such events and once again insurers will be digging deep into their pockets. It is unsurprising that some of the UK's top insurers saw their share prices fall as a result.
This consequently means that premiums are sure to rise for consumers and business's alike, so with this in mind, listed below are few small steps that may ease the strain for everyone who has been affected by storm damage.
 Check your policy details and find exactly what you are and
 what you are not covered for. Calling up to make inaccurate
 claims will only jam up an already extremely busy call centre.
 Turn away uninvited workmen that may call at your door. They
 may be opportunists rather than recognised professionals and
 often are not V.A.T registered or are unable to provide a
 receipt for the work they carry out. Avoid these workmen
 however desperate the situation may seem as insurers will not
 re-imburse any clean up or repair costs without a receipt.
 The UK's top insurers are likely to recommend tradesmen they have already vetted.
 are of sound character. If they are unavailable and it is an
 emergency, such as a broken patio door letting in more rain
 and causing further damage, you should personally organise
 the repair.
 Keep updated on the latest weather forecasts. It has been
 recently reported that water levels are so high at some places
 in the South of England that weathermen predict flooding could
 be around until spring of 2001. 
 
Summary 
In anticipation of increasing climate changes in the UK, household insurance will become a very important if not crucial issue for every homeowner in the country. Failing to ensure your property is completely covered in such a crisis will ultimately lead to a road of uncertainty and as yet unknown financial repercussions.
" The service provided by The Insurance Centre is caring, efficient and competitive - we envisage continuing our long-standing relationship for many years to come. Their knowledge of the market is second to none." 
( Andrew Dyson> Managing Director > Carsource Ltd > www.carsource.co.uk ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exclusive Deals 
 
 
 
 
 
Join our successful Affiliate Program and benefit from a working revenue stream. 
 
 
NEW:
Commercial Vehicle
Commercial Business
Commercial Taxi
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Us 
Privacy Policy | Feedback | Copyright & Legal | Company Profile | Jobs@The Insurance Centre
Recomended Group Sites 
 car insurance uk, home insurance, travel insurance, bike insurance, cheapest insurance quotes @ www.theinsurancecentre.co.uk 
 used cars, car insurance, used car prices, car prices, the best cars and deals @ www.carsource.co.uk"
 used car prices, car prices and used car price guide, the best cars and deals @ www.carprices.co.uk 
 
 
 
return to top 
