
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Access the internet via your mobile phone
 
 
 Phone.com 
 
 Find out more about WAP 
 
 
 
 WAP's going on?
 by Marvin Alburquerque 
 
 
 
 
 There was a time, not so long ago, when mobile phones were considered a luxury. Today, everyone's got one. But the mobile phone revolution doesn't end there - it's about to become the gateway to cyberspace.
 
Despite the explosive growth of the Internet in recent years, around 18 million UK households still don't possess a PC. Yet when it comes to mobile phones, 16.8 million of us has got one. Infact, before the millennium, it is estimated one in four adults will have a mobile phone and ownership is becoming easier every day thanks to the advent of pre-pay phone packages and super supermarket deals retailing mobiles for less than a price of designer jeans. 
So it's not surprising that the 
 techno-boffins have decided that the next step for the worldwide web is access via your mobile, rather than a PC. The science behind this idea is WAP - the Wireless Application Protocol. 
WAP is all the fuss about?WAP phones do away with the need for colour screen monitors, 
 keyboards and popular browser software from the likes of 
 Microsoft and Netscape. With a WAP phone and a WAP browser, you get a small black and white screen and use the lower speed connections that digital phone networks currently offer. 
WAP it catch on?At 
 the moment the only catch is that WAP phones can only surf internet pages 
 if the likes of AOL, Yahoo and friends use WAP-friendly systems. On top of 
 that, web designers 
 will have to develop specific web pages for WAP users (to make it easier for the phones to display the information). 
Many folk claim that consumers will not want a 
 'cut-down' version of the internet. After all, would you 
 swap a Nicam widescreen TV for a black & white 
 portable? WAP supporters counter such skepticism by pointing out that the 
 web is all too often criticised for its slowness and that 
 with the backing of the major phone manufacturers, by 
 2005 there will be more WAP phones in circulation than networked PCs. 
The new generation of mobile phones are already coming off the conveyor belts from the likes of Ericsson, Siemens, Motorola, Samsung, Alcatel, Nokia, whilst mobile networks are preparing themselves for increased data traffic. 
Are you WAP for it?
 
 
