
 
 
	
 
 
RoyalSunAlliance - Virtual Media Centre
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Royal and SunAlliance Buys Independent Insurance's loss adjusting arm
	 
	
	
	
	
	9th July 2001 - Mike Wallwork
	 
	
	
	
	
	In a move that will help ensure continuity of claims handling for Independent Insurance’s customers, Royal & SunAlliance (R&SA), one of the UK’s largest general insurers, has agreed terms to purchase the assets of the company’s primarily commercial loss adjusting arm, Property and Casualty Services (PCS). The consideration to be paid will be around £3 million. 
The deal, agreed with appointed liquidators PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), enables R&SA to take control of PCS’s 300 claims adjusters with effect from 9 July 2001, under a Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) (TUPE) arrangement. This move increases R&SA’s total in-house adjusting and investigating specialists to around 800 across its Commercial and Personal businesses, reinforcing the company’s position as an industry leader in claims management. 
Paul Spencer, UK Chief Executive of R&SA, said: "This acquisition is another step forward in truly differentiating ourselves in the marketplace. We see superior claims handling as an integral part of our customer proposition and we have a UK strategy that places it at the heart of our service to customers.	 	 "Our aim is to build the very best claims function in the business by providing the fastest responses, the best service standards and the fairest and quickest settlements. PCS are award winners* and acknowledged leaders in their claims field and we are delighted to have them on-board.” 
Mark Batten, Partner of PwC, said: "The sale of PCS to R&SA makes a great deal of sense. We achieved a fair value for the business, and we have avoided wholesale redundancy for the PCS staff. Critically, we have also ensured that there is no break in the claims handling process for policyholders. As part of the deal, R&SA will continue the adjustment of existing Independent claims at a discounted cost, a move that will undoubtedly assist us as the whole liquidation process continues to unfold.” 	 Paul Spencer concluded: "The PCS team will also continue with its approach of undertaking loss adjusting work for other organisations as this makes sound financial sense to us from a revenue point of view. Our priority now is to achieve a seamless transfer of the business and communicate our plans to both employees and customers.” 
Notes to Editors 
Royal & SunAlliance &#61623; Royal & SunAlliance (www.royalsunalliance.co.uk) is one of the world’s largest multi-national insurance groups, writing all major classes of general and life insurance. We transact business in over 130 countries and have 20 million customers around the world. &#61623; Royal & SunAlliance employs over 22,000 people in the UK &#61623; Royal & SunAlliance already has an in-house fieldforce of about 300 Claims Advisors Surveyors dedicated to Personal lines business &#61623; Royal & SunAlliance recently agreed with PwC to provide continuity of insurance cover for over 250,000 council tenants who were affected by Independent Insurance’s collapse &#61623; * PCS won the Insurance Times ‘Adjuster of the Year’ award in 1999 and 2000 &#61623; This release can be found on-line at www.royalsunalliance.co.uk/media 
PricewaterhouseCoopers &#61623; PricewaterhouseCoopers Business Recovery Services helps to unlock and enhance the value trapped in under-performing businesses, delivering services to owners, lenders and other stakeholders including decision and management support, business regeneration implementation, and optimised exits, such as sale or insolvency. PricewaterhouseCoopers unparalleled scale, industry knowledge and professional expertise enables BRS to provide practical advice to under-performing businesses and to implement solutions to maximise value recovery. 
 &#61623; PricewaterhouseCoopers (www.pwcglobal.com) is the world's largest professional services organisation. Drawing on the knowledge and skills of more than 150,000 people in 150 countries, we help our clients solve complex business problems and measurably enhance their ability to build value, manage risk and improve performance in an Internet-enabled world. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the member firms of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organisation. 
Enquiries: Mike Wallwork Royal & SunAlliance UK Public Relations Manager Tel: 0151 224 3832 Mob: 07802 563873 
 
	 
	
	
	
	Back to News Headlines
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
