
policy document
 
 { back } 
 
 
 
Summary of Key Benefits
 
 
Single Trip Annual Multi-trip Travel Insurance 
Cover Limit of Cover Excess 
Cancellation and Curtailment £5,000 £35 
Cutting short your trip £5,000 £35 
Delayed Departure £25 per 12 hour period/£200 
Missed Departure £1,000 
Hijack £50 per day/£1,000 
Emergency Medical Expenses £10,000,000 £35 
Hospital Benefit £20 per day/£1,000 
Personal Accident
 - Death
 - Loss of sight/limbs
 - Permanent Total Disablement £25,000
 £25,000
 £25,000 
Personal Belongings
 - Single Article Limit
 - Valuables Limit
 - Delayed Baggage £1,500
£300
£300
£150 £35 
Personal Money £500 £35 
Cash £300 
Loss of Passport £250 
Personal Liability £2,000,000 
Legal Expenses £25,000 £100 
Optional Upgrades 
Winter Sports Cover 
Cover Limit of Cover Excess 
Ski Equipment £400 £35 
Hired Skis £15 per day/£300 
Ski Pack £200 perweek/£400 
Piste Closure £20 per day/£200 
Avalanche Closure £200 
Wedding Cover 
Cover Limit of Cover Excess 
Wedding Rings £250 £35 
Wedding Gifts £1,000 £35 
Wedding Attire £1,500 per couple £35 
Wedding Photographs £750 per couple £35 
Golf Cover 
Cover Limit of Cover Excess 
Golf Equipment £1,000 £35 
Single Article Limit £300 
 
 
Thank you for buying
cahoot travel insurance
This policy document contains full details of the cover and
conditions you must satisfy and is the basis on which all
claims will be settled.
This policy constitutes a contract between you andus
and is made up of the schedule and this policy document,
which together form the contract of insurance and is
based upon information that you provided on your
application form.
In return for the correct premium, we will pay you or your
personal representative if you make a valid claim.
Please be aware that this policy does not cover for every
eventuality. You should read this policy carefully to ensure
that this meets with your requirements. Please keep this in
a safe place and take it with you on your trip.
Important Telephone Numbers
Customer Service 0870 400 4894
Monday - Friday 8.00am - 8.00pm
Saturday 9.00am - 6.00pm
Claims 0870 400 4895
Monday - Friday 9.00am - 5.30pm
Pre-Travel Advice Line (24 Hours) 020 8847 8095
Legal Advice (24 Hours) 020 8847 8095
Emergency Medical Assistance (24 Hours)
For USA, Canada, South America and the Caribbean
Toll Free 1 - 877 - 566 - 2681
Non-Toll Free 001 - 819 - 566 - 2681
For Europe and the rest of the world +44 (0) 20 8847 8095
24 Hour Emergency Medical Assistance
The Emergency Service is available 24 hours a day to
help you in a medical emergency and can arrange, where
appropriate, admission to hospital, ambulance transfers
and air repatriation if medically necessary.
If you need medical treatment abroad or have to go into
hospital or require medical assistance during your trip or
need to return early to home, you must call us first for
authorisation before you agree to make any payment.
If you do not do this, we may not pay your claim.
24 Hour Medical Emergency and Assistance Services in
the USA/Canada/South America/Caribbean.
If you call us prior to in-patient or outpatient treatment
we will direct you to a qualified, accredited medical
provider who will bill us directly for the treatment you receive.
Telephone (Toll Free) 1-877-566-2681
Non Toll Free 001-819-566-2681
24 Hour Emergency Service in all other countries
Telephone +44 (0) 20 8847 8095
When contacting the emergency service, you will need to
provide the following information :-
Your name.
Your address and contact details.
Your policy number shown on your schedule.
The dates of your trip.
The type of assistance you need.
It is a condition of the policy that we can decide on the most suitable, practical and reasonable solution
to any problem.
Contents Page
Section 1
Your Travel Insurance 
Section 2
Definitions
Section 3
Your Cover 
Cancellation and Curtailment
Delay Cover
Missed Departure 
Hijack 
Medical Emergency and Associated Expenses 
Hospital Benefit 
Personal Accident 
Personal Belongings 
Personal Money 
Loss of Passport 
Personal Liabilities 
Legal Expenses 
Section 4
Optional Cover 
Winter Sports Cover 
Wedding Cover
Golf Cover
Section 5
General Exclusions and Conditions
Section 6
Complaints Procedure
Section 7
Claims Procedure
Section 1 - Your Travel Insurance
This policy has been arranged by cahoot and is
underwritten by Financial Insurance Company Limited,
Vantage West, Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex
TW8 9AG.
We are required to tell you some important features of
your policy including:
Policy Document
This policy document gives you full details of the cover
and the conditions you must satisfy to ensure you are fully
covered. Your policy schedule will show the type of cover
you have chosen. Please read these carefully and call us on
0870 400 4894 if you need any further help and advice.
Conditions and Exclusions
There are conditions and exclusions which apply to
individual Sections of the policy and general exclusions
which apply to the whole policy, for example consequential
loss.
Pre-existing medical conditions
We will not pay if you cancel or cut short your trip as a
result of any pre-existing medical condition for which you
have received treatment or consultation within six months
prior to buying this policy, if you have received a terminal
prognosis or if at the time of buying this policy, you are on
a hospital waiting list or awaiting the results of any
hospital tests, unless we agreed to cover it in writing
before the trip.
This policy also contains exclusions relating to persons who
are not travelling but on whose health the trip could
depend and also persons you are travelling with but who
are not insured under this policy. If you need any advice
regarding pre-existing conditions, please call us for advice
on 0870 400 4894.
Eligibility
To be eligible for this insurance you must be a permanent
resident of the United Kingdom.
Limit of cover
Each Section of the policy shows the most you can claim,
but other limits may apply. For example under the Personal
Belongings Section the overall cover is £1,500 but there is a
lower limit for valuables and any one item. Please check
your policy carefully to ensure you have adequate cover.
Looking after your belongings
Youshould take all reasonable care to protect your
belongings and act as if you are not insured. If you do not
do this we may not pay your claim.
Hazardous activities
If you are going to take part in any hazardous activity,
you may not be covered by this policy. If you are intending
to take part in any hazardous activity and want to check
you are covered, please contact us on 0870 400 4894.
Please see definitions of Hazardous activities.
Premium refund
If you are dissatisfied with this policy or if the policy does
not meet your needs, you may return it within 14 days of
the date of issue and we will refund your premium in full
provided you have not undertaken a trip. You must also
not have made or intend to make a claim.
Excesses
Under most Sections of the policy, claims will be subject to
an excess. This means that you will have to pay the first
part of your claim. If you have paid the extra premium for
excess waiver cover, the excess will not apply.
Duration of Cover
Your policy schedule will show you when your cover starts
and finishes.
Complaints
This policy contains a complaints procedure, which tells
you what steps you can take if you wish to make a
complaint.
Making a claim
To help us deal quickly and efficiently with your claim,
please read the claims procedure. This tells
you what documents you will need to support your claim.
Some proof you may need, for example a police report,
you must obtain while you are on yourtrip.
Medical Emergency
If you need assistance in the event of a medical emergency,
please contact the Emergency Service immediately.
Choice of Law
If you buy this insurance in the United Kingdom you can
choose which law will apply to the policy. English law will
apply unless we agree otherwise.
Reciprocal Health Agreement
If you are travelling to a European Union country,
you should obtain from your local Post Office the
Department of Health form T5 which contains forms CM1
and E111 which when stamped by the Post Office will entitle
you to certain free health arrangements in EU countries.
Renewals
If you have bought an Annual Multi-trip Policy, we will
send you a renewal notice prior to the expiry of your
policy, in time to allow you to consider and arrange any
continuing cover you may need.
One way trips
This policy is designed to cover a round trip that starts
and finishes at your usual home in the United Kingdom.
Cover for one way trips may be arranged up to a maximum
of 17 days and will be restricted to the cover that would
have applied if you had arranged to return home at the
end of the period of insurance.
Geographical areas
Area 1 - Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man
and the Channel Islands. (For annual multi-trip insurance,
cover for Area 1 will be applicable only where a minimum
of two night's accommodation has been pre-booked).
Area 2 - Europe (including Russia west of the Ural
Mountains), islands in the Mediterranean, the Azores,
the Canary Islands, Madeira, Iceland, Turkey, Israel,
Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Gambia and the
Republic of Ireland.
Area 3 - Worldwide
Policy information
If you require information or advice on any aspect of this
policy please contact us on 0870 400 4894.
If you have special needs i.e. hard of hearing, large text,
braille or taped version please telephone the:
Disability Textphone: 0870 400 4855
Disability Helpline: 0870 400 4854
Important 24-hour Medical Emergency Service
While Abroad
If you need medical treatment abroad or have to go into
hospital or require medical assistance during yourtrip or
need to return early to home, you must call us first for
authorisation before you agree to make any payment.
If you do not do this we may not pay your claim.
The Emergency Service will provide, where appropriate,
- A guarantee and payment of hospital and doctors fees.
- Suitable repatriation, with trained medical escorts
where required. In critical cases an air ambulance
will be provided.
- Necessary travel arrangements for members of your
party or a close relative (if applicable).
- Road ambulance and admission to hospital on your
arrival in the United Kingdom.
Pre Travel Advice
Before you travel you may require information on visas,
vaccinations and general information such as the safety of
drinking water, tipping, opening hours of banks and shops.
We shall be pleased to help where possible with your
enquiry. This service is available by calling 020 8847 8095
and quoting your policy number.
Don't fall victim
Every year a number of people fall victim to theft
of personal possessions and money. You should take
reasonable care to protect yourself and your property -
always act as if you were not insured.
Please Remember:
- Don't travel with more cash or valuables than you need.
- Use credit/debit cards or travellers cheques.
- Remember to record numbers and the 'loss centre'
telephone number separately.
- Report losses immediately.
- Where available use hotel deposit boxes to store
valuables, money and passports. Otherwise keep these
locked in personal accommodation.
- Keep luggage locked at all times. If travelling by car lock
it in the boot but always take your valuables with you.
- Never leave luggage unattended or with strangers.
- Beware of pickpockets, thieves and blackmarketeers.
They are professionals who know their surroundings.
Be on your guard and act discreetly.
Hazardous Activities
Please be aware that the following activities are not covered:
- Flying of any kind other than as a fare paying passenger
in a fully licensed passenger carrying aircraft.
- Driving a car, van, lorry or similar form of motorised
transport unless you have the appropriate licence to do so.
- Driving or riding as a passenger on a motorcycle or
moped unless the driver has the appropriate licence to
do so and you are wearing a helmet
- Hang-gliding.
- Parachuting.
- Sky-diving or sky surfing.
- Motor-racing, motorcycle racing or sidecar racing.
- Bullfighting.
- Potholing or caving.
- Mountaineering, cliff or rock climbing using
ropes or guides.
- Horse racing, eventing, hunting on horseback,
polo, show jumping, endurance riding, rodeo.
- Boxing, wrestling or martial arts.
- Racing in motor boats.
- High diving.
- Scuba diving unless:
- 
You are a qualified diver, or
- A qualified instructor accompanies you.
	No cover applies over a depth of 30m nor if you dive unaccompanied.
- Yacht-racing or ocean-going yachting.
- Winter Sports
(This cover is only provided if you have paid the
appropriate additional premium to include winter sports
cover. If you have an annual multi trip policy and have
paid the additional premium to include winter sports
cover, you will be covered to a maximum of 17 days).
If you have paid the appropriate additional premium to
include this cover, the words winter sports are amended
to read: "Ski-racing, ski-jumping, snowboarding without
a leash, off-piste skiing unless accompanied by a
qualified guide or instructor, heliskiing, ice hockey,
bobsleighing, the use of skeletons, toboggans or luges,
freestyle-skiing, competitive skiing")
- White water rafting, canoeing or kayaking
- Any team sport such as football, rugby or hockey where
the main purpose of the trip/journey is to participate in
that sport.
- Any sport as a professional.
- Paid manual work.
If you are unsure as to whether your chosen activity is
insured, please call us on 0870 400 4894.
Section 2 - Definitions
Wherever the following words appear in bold in the policy
they will have the following meanings:
Accident/Accidental
Accident/Accidental means in respect of personal accident
benefits and exclusions a sudden event, which happens by
chance after the start date of the policy and results in your
bodily injury.
Bodily injury
Injury to your body which is caused solely by violent
accidental external and visible means. This does not include
any sickness, disease or naturally occurring condition or
gradually operating or degenerative process.
Cash
Coins and notes that are legal tender in any country.
Close Relative
Your mother, father, sister, brother, wife, husband,
fianc&#39461;), partner, daughter, son, grandparent, grandchild,
parent-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in-law,
brother-in-law, step-parent, step-child, step-sister, step-brother,
aunt, uncle, cousin, nephew, niece.
Colleague
Anyone who works at your place of business and who,
if you were both away from work at the same time, would
prevent the business from running properly.
Cutting short your trip
Your early return to home before the scheduled
return date.
Family
Family means 2 adults and up to 5 dependant children
under the age of 21 years in full time education and
travelling with parents.
Single parent family
Single parent family means 1 adult and up to 5 dependent
children under the age of 21 years in full time education
and residing with the parent.
Couple
Someone with whom you have been co-habiting for at
least 1 year. Can be same sex Partners.
Hazardous activities
Any activities listed in the hazardous activities Section.
Home
Your permanent private residential address in the United Kingdom.
Loss of limbs
Total and permanent loss of use or permanent amputation
at or above the wrist or ankle.
Loss of sight
Complete and permanent loss of sight in one or both eyes.
Period of insurance
The dates shown on your Schedule of Insurance during
which you are covered.
- For single trip insurance:
- Cancellation cover starts on the date of issue shown on
	your Schedule of Insurance and ends when you leave
	your home or place of business whichever is the last at
	the start of your trip,
- all other cover starts when you leave your home or place
	of business whichever is the last at the start of the trip
	and ends on your return home or to your place of
	business whichever is the first at the end of your trip.
- For annual multi-trip insurance:
- Cancellation cover starts on the date of issue shown on
	your Schedule of Insurance and ends when you leave
	your home or place of business whichever is the last at
	the start of that particular trip.
- For each subsequent trip booked and taken within the
	policy period, cancellation cover commences from the
	date of booking the trip and ends when you leave your
	home or place of business whichever is the last.
- All other cover starts when you leave your home or
	place of business whichever is the last at the start of the
	trip and ends on your return home or your place of
	business whichever is the first at the end of the trip.
- All cover ceases at midnight on the last day of the
	policy period shown on your schedule. Both start and
	finish dates of the trip must occur within the policy
	period shown on your schedule.
- In respect of UK holidays, cover is only provided
	where the trip is pre- booked and involves at least
	2 nights duration.
- All cover ceases at the end of the Period of Insurance.
- Both start and finish dates of the trip must occur within
the policy period shown on your schedule.
We will extend the period of insurance by up to 30 days
at no extra cost if you have to stay on your trip longer
because of events over which you have no control and
of which you have no knowledge at the time of buying
this insurance.
Such extension to cover must be agreed by us prior
to commencement.
Permanent total disablement
Total and permanent disability which medical evidence
confirms will last the rest of your life and prevents you
undertaking paid work of any and every kind.
Personal belongings
Personal effects owned by you and taken, worn or
purchased on the trip.
Personal money
Cash, travellers' cheques, letters of credit, travel tickets,
hotel vouchers, passports, visas and green cards you have
for your private use on the trip.
Resident of the United Kingdom
A person who has a home in the United Kingdom and who
resides there for at least 6 months a year.
Travelling Companion
The person or persons you have booked to travel with.
Trip
Any return journey that starts and finishes from your home
or place of business in the United Kingdom and which
lasts, or is scheduled to last, for no more than 180 days for
a single trip policy or 31 days for each trip for an annual
multi trip policy.
United Kingdom
Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and the
Channel Islands.
Valuables
Jewellery, gold, silver, precious metal or precious stone
articles, watches, furs, radios, binoculars, telescopes, audio,
photographic, video, computer, television and
telecommunication equipment.
We/us/our
Financial Insurance Company Limited.
You/your
Any person whose name appears on the policy schedule.
Underwritten by Financial Insurance Company Limited -
incorporated in England no: 1515187 limited by shares
Section 3 - Your CoverCancellation and Curtailment
- 
We will pay you up to £5,000 for travel and
accommodation charges (including excursion expenses
up to £100) which are not recoverable elsewhere and
which you have paid or contracted to pay should you
have to cancel yourtrip before you leave your home or
place of business as a result of:
- 
your death, injury or illness or that of your travelling
	companion, the person you are going to stay with, a
	close relative or colleague;
- 
you or your travelling companion having their leave
	cancelled for operational reasons by the police or
	armed forces;
- 
you or your travelling companion being required by the
	police to stay at home as a result of burglary, serious
	fire, storm or flooding to your or their home or usual
	place of business in the United Kingdom;
- 
you or your travelling companion being required for
	jury service in the United Kingdom or as a witness in a
	court of law in the United Kingdom
- 
 you being made involuntarily redundant under
	applicable legislation.
- 
You will be covered up to £5,000 if youcut short yourtrip as a result of:
- 
your death, injury or illness or that of your travelling
	companion, the person you are going to stay with, or a
	close relative or colleague;
- 
you or your travelling companion being required by the
	police to return home as a result of burglary, serious fire,
	storm or flooding to your or their home or usual place
	 business in the United Kingdom
- 
you or your travelling companion being required for
	jury service or as a witness in a court of law in the United Kingdom
Exclusions
We will not pay if you cancel or cut short your trip as a result of:
- any pre-existing medical condition for which you have
received treatment or consultation within six months
prior to buying this policy, if you have received a
terminal prognosis or if at the time of buying this policy,
you are on a hospital waiting list or awaiting the results
of any hospital tests, unless we agreed to cover it in
writing before the trip;
- any circumstances you were aware of at the time this
insurance was bought, or at the time of booking a trip,
if later, which you knew might lead to yourtrip being
cancelled or cut short, unless we agreed to cover it in
writing before the trip;
- 
 you booking a trip which is against the advice of
a doctor;
- any sickness, disease, condition or injury suffered by,
or any terminal prognosis given to your travelling
companion, anyone you will be staying with or any close
relative or colleague which you were aware of at the
time this insurance was bought, or at the time of
booking the trip, if later, unless we agreed to provide
cover in writing before the trip;
- 
 your disinclination to travel;
- 
 you not having the correct passport, visa or other
entry documents;
- any restrictions caused by the law of any country;
- the failure of any transport, accommodation provider or
any conference organiser/or their agent or any person
acting for you;
- 
 your financial circumstances which were known to you
at the time you bought this insurance;
- 
 your decision not to go on or continue with the trip for
reasons other than those listed above;
- 
 your suicide, attempted suicide, intentional self-injury or
deliberate exposure to danger (unless in an attempt to
save someone's life);
- 
 you being under the influence of alcohol, solvents or
drugs (except drugs prescribed by a doctor other than
for the treatment of drug abuse);
- pregnancy or childbirth if you are expected to give birth eight weeks before the start of, during or within eight
weeks after the end of yourtrip;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions;
- 
we will not pay any claim resulting directly or indirectly
from you participating in any hazardous activity.
We will not pay the first £35 (reduced to £10 for loss
of deposit only claims) for any loss, charge or expense
incurred in respect of each claim under this Section.
(This exclusion will not apply if you pay the excess
waiver premium).
Conditions applying to cutting short your holiday
The 24 hour Medical Emergency Service must be called
immediately or as soon as reasonably possible to authorise
any expenses if you have to return home early. If you do
not do this we may not pay your claim.
You must not arrange in-flight medical care for your return
journey without the permission of the 24 hour Medical
Emergency Service. Our medical advisers will consult with
the doctors treating you to decide on reasonable grounds
if this is necessary and will make the most appropriate
arrangements for you.
We may instruct you to return home if our medical
advisers and the doctors treating you decide that you are
fit to travel.
Please refer to the Section on the Claims Procedure in this policy.
Delay cover
If the transport on which you are booked as a passenger
for your outward or return journey is delayed or cancelled
for reasons beyond your control, we will pay you one of
the following.
- Compensation of £25 for each completed 12 hours you
are delayed up to a maximum £200.
- The full deposit or cancellation charges up to £5,000 if
after a delay of 12 hours to your outward journey from
the United Kingdomyou choose to cancel the trip.
Delay benefit will be based on the difference between
your actual time of departure and your scheduled
departure time.
Exclusions
We will not pay for
- claims caused by strike, industrial action or any other
reason which was public knowledge when this policy
was bought or yourtrip was booked;
- delay as a result of your failure to check in at your
departure point on time;
- claims if the provider of transport, accommodation
or tour operator stops trading;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions;
- any money you can recover from someone or
somebody else;
No excess is payable in respect of claims for compensation only.
Conditions
You must obtain written confirmation from the carrier to
confirm the cause of the delay and the period of delay.
You will also need to tell us the scheduled time of your
departure and the actual time of your departure.
Missed Departure
We will pay you up to £1,000 for reasonable and necessary
extra travel and accommodation expenses to allow you to
get to your destination abroad or to return home if:
- scheduled public transport services on which you are
booked as a passenger fail or are disrupted;
or
- the car in which you are travelling is involved in an
accident or breaks down and this stops you from getting
to the airport, port or station on time.
Internal flights that are part of your trip plans and which
are pre-booked and paid for in the United Kingdom prior
to departure are covered under this Section.
Exclusions
We will not pay you a delayed departure or missed
departure claim for:
- claims caused by strike or industrial action which was
public knowledge when this insurance was bought or
yourtrip was booked;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions;
- any claim caused by traffic congestion.
Conditions
You must do all that you can to arrive on time at the
airport, port or station from which you are leaving.
If you miss the departure due to your car being involved
in an accident or breaking down, you must send us a
written police accident report or repairer's report.
Hijack
We will pay you £50 (£1,000 in all) for each complete
24 hour period that you are unable to reach yourtrip
destination or return to yourhome because the plane or
ship you are travelling on is hijacked.
Medical Emergency and Associated Expenses
If you are travelling outside the United Kingdom we will
pay up to £10,000,000 for any necessary and reasonable
expenses caused by your illness, injury or death occurring
during the period of insurance for:
- medical expenses you have to pay within 12
months of your illness, injury or death outside
of the United Kingdom;
- emergency dental treatment up to £150 for the
immediate relief of pain only;
- the extra cost of you returning home;
- extra accommodation expenses if you are advised by a
doctor that you should stay longer than you intended;
- extra travel and accommodation expenses where a
doctor has advised it is necessary for one person to stay
with you or to travel from the United Kingdom to escort
youhome if you are seriously ill or injured;
- up to £1,500 for funeral expenses abroad;
- the cost of bringing your body or ashes home.
- up to £150 for unrecoverable expenses in respect of
excursions you have paid for before your departure but
which you have not made.
If you are travelling within the United Kingdom we will
pay you up to £10,000 for:
- extra travel and accommodation expenses if you are
advised by a doctor that such travel or accommodation
is necessary;
- extra travel and accommodation expenses where a
doctor has advised it is necessary for one person to stay
with you or to travel to be with you if you are seriously
ill or injured;
- the extra cost of bringing your body or ashes home;
- extra charges necessarily incurred to transfer you
by ambulance to a hospital or nursing home nearer
yourhome;
- extra charges necessarily incurred to recover your car
and yourpersonal belongings to yourhome if you or
any other person travelling with you at the time of your
discharge from hospital is unable to drive the car in
which case we will arrange recovery of your car and
your personal belongings.
Hospital Benefit
If you are travelling outside the United Kingdom we
will pay you up to £1,000 (£20 for every complete 24 hour
period) you are kept in hospital during the period of
insurance as an in-patient or confined to your
accommodation on the instructions of a doctor.
Any amount you rec you eive under this Section will be in
addition to any amount that you receive under the
Medical Emergency and Associated Expenses section.
You may use this benefit to cover incidental expenses
incurred such as telephone calls and taxi fares.
A medical certificate must be obtained from the treating
doctor showing the period of admission to hospital or
confinement to your accommodation.
Personal Accident
If you sustain accidental bodily injury during the period
of insurance and the injury results in your death or
disability (as listed below) within 12 months we will pay
you (or your legal personal representative(s) in the event
of death) the following benefits:
- Death £25,000
- 
Loss of one or more limbsor loss of sight £25,000
in one or both eyes
- 
Permanent total disablement £25,000
 
Exclusions applicable to Sections Medical Emergency
and Associated Expenses, Hospital Benefit and Personal Accident
In respect of medical emergency and associated expenses,
hospital benefit and personal accident we will not pay
you for:
- any claim arising from any pre-existing medical condition
for which you have received treatment or consultation
within six months prior to buying this policy or if you
have received a terminal prognosis or if at the time of
buying this policy, you are on a hospital waiting list or
awaiting the results of any hospital tests unless we
agreed to cover it in writing before the trip;
- any advice, treatment or surgery where you have
travelled against the advice of a doctor or in order to
obtain medical treatment or advice abroad;
- any treatment or surgery which our medical advisers
reasonably believe is not essential or could wait until
your return home;
- any treatment or surgery or exploratory tests which are
not directly related to the illness or injury for which you
originally went into hospital;
- cosmetic or elective surgery;
- medication which you knew you would need while you
were away;
- any extra costs incurred for a single private room unless
medically necessary;
- treatment or services provided by a health spa,
convalescent or nursing home or any rehabilitation
centre;
- repairs to or the provision of dentures or artificial teeth
or any dental work involving the use of precious metals;
- any treatment in the country where you normally live;
- any claim arising from motorcycling where you are the
driver or passenger unless you or the driver holds a
current and valid licence which allows you or them to
ride a motorcycle;
- 
your suicide, attempted suicide, intentional self-injury or
deliberate exposure to danger (unless in an attempt to
save someone's life);
- 
you being under the influence of alcohol, solvents or
drugs (except drugs prescribed by a doctor other than
for the treatment of drug abuse);
- pregnancy or childbirth if you are expected to give birth
eight weeks before the start of, during or within eight
weeks after the end of yourtrip.
- any claim resulting directly or indirectly from you
participating in any hazardous activity;
- any loss of ski pack costs;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions.
In addition, we will not pay you personal accident
benefits for:
- more than one benefit to any one insured person for
injuries caused by one accident;
- more than £1,500 for a claim relating to death of a
person under the age of 16;
- any claim for permanent total disablement if you are
over 65 years of age.
Conditions
The 24 hour Medical Emergency Service must be called
immediately or as soon as reasonably possible to authorise
any expenses for medical treatment abroad or if you have
to return home early. If you do not do this we may not pay
your claim.
You must not arrange in-flight medical care for your return
journey without the permission of the 24 hour Medical
Emergency Service. Our medical advisers will consult with
the doctors treating you to decide if this is reasonably
necessary and will make the most appropriate
arrangements for you.
We may instruct you to return home if our medical
advisers and the doctors treating you decide on reasonable
grounds that you are fit to travel.
Please refer to the Section on the claims procedure of this policy.
If you do not follow this procedure we may not pay
your claim.
Personal belongings
If you accidentally lose or damage your personal
belongings or they are stolen during the period of
insurance we will pay you up to £1,500 to replace or repair
them (after any suitable deduction for wear and tear and
depreciation if applicable)
You can claim up to £300 for any one item, pair or set.
The overall limit for valuables is £300.
If your personal belongings are temporarily lost for more
than 12 hours on the outward journey we will pay you up
to £150 for the purchase of essential items. If your
baggage is permanently lost we will deduct any payment
made for temporary loss from the final settlement.
All receipts must be produced as proof of purchase.
If you lose your personal belongings temporarily, you must
obtain a report from the carrier or in the case of an airline,
a "Property Irregularity Report" from the airline or
handling Agent.
Personal Money
We will pay you up to £500 (limited to £300 in respect of
cash) if you lose or have stolen personal money during the
period of insurance.
Loss of Passport
We will pay you up to £250 for necessary and reasonable
extra travel accommodation and communication expenses
outside of Great Britain, Northern Ireland and The Isle of
Man involved in getting a replacement passport or visa if
it is lost or stolen during the period of insurance.
Exclusions
We will not pay you a personal belongings claim for:
- more than £300 per person in total for valuables;
- more than £300 per person for any one article, pair or
set of articles;
- breakage of or damage to fragile articles, (except lenses
in cameras, binoculars, telescopes, or spectacles) and any
other loss caused by the breakage;
- loss, theft of or damage to valuables which you have
left in baggage checked in by a carrier and outside your
control;
- loss or theft of or damage to personal belongings or
valuables if they have been left unattended in a vehicle,
unless they are locked out of sight in the boot of the
vehicle or the luggage compartment of an estate or
hatchback and there is evidence of violent and forcible
entry;
- films, cassettes, cartridges or disks other than for their
value as unused material unless purchased pre-recorded
when we will pay up to the retail list price;
- perishable goods, bottles, cartons or any other loss
caused by the breakage;
- pedal cycles, wheelchairs, prams, pushchairs or baby
buggies other than while they are being conveyed by
public transport;
- contact or corneal lenses;
- the cost of replacing damaged dentures;
- loss or theft of or damage to winter sports equipment;
- 
your personal belongings if they are delayed, detained
or confiscated by customs or other officials;
- 
your personal belongings if they are lost or damaged as
a result of wear and tear, depreciation in value, damage
caused by moth or vermin or any process of cleaning,
repairing or restoring.
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions.
We will not pay the first £35 for any loss, charge or
expense incurred in respect of each claim under this
Section. (This exclusion will not apply if you pay the excess
waiver premium).
We will not pay you a personal money claim for:
- more than £300 for loss of cash unless the personal
money was, at the time of loss or theft deposited in a
safe or safety deposit box or left in your locked personal
accommodation;
- loss caused by depreciation in value or shortage caused
by error or omission;
- loss of travellers cheques if you have not complied with
the issuers conditions or where the issuer provides a
replacement service;
- loss or theft from a vehicle;
- loss or theft of personal money which you have left in
baggage checked in by a carrier;
- loss or theft of ski lift pass;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions;
- 
your personal money if it is delayed, detained or
confiscated by customs or other officials;
- 
we will not pay the first £35 for any loss, charge or
expense incurred in respect of each claim under this
Section. (This exclusion will not apply if you pay the
excess waiver premium).
Conditions
We will not pay you the benefits for personal belongings,
personal money or loss of passport if:
- 
you fail to exercise reasonable care for the safety and
supervision of your property;
- 
you fail to obtain a written police report within 24 hours
of the discovery in the event of loss or theft;
- 
you fail to obtain a carriers report or in the case of an
airline a Property Irregularity Report where your property
has been lost or damaged in transit;
- 
your personal belongings or personal money are delayed,
detained or confiscated by customs or other officials.
Personal Liability
We will pay up to £2,000,000 in respect of any one
occurrence and in total for accidental bodily injury
to another person or accidental damage to someone
else's property occurring during the period of insurance
which you legally have to pay. This cover is only for
accidental injury or damage to the property of people
other than your employee or close relative or property
which is not owned by you or being looked after by you
or a close relative, other than in respect of your
commercial holiday let.
We will also pay for your legal expenses and any claimant's
costs payable but we must give our written consent to this.
Exclusions
We will not pay you a personal liability claim for:
- liability caused directly or indirectly by you owning, or
the use of, animals (except domestic animals), firearms
(except licensed sporting guns used for recreational
purposes only), any aircraft, motorised vehicle, boat or
any other form of motorised leisure equipment (unless it
is a boat designed for and being used as accommodation
and is permanently moored);
- employer's liability or liability caused by carrying out
contracts, supplying goods and services, or you doing
your job;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions.
Conditions
You must send us any writ, summons or other legal
documents as soon as you receive them. Youyou must also give
us any information and help we need to deal with the case
and your claim. You must not negotiate, pay, settle, admit
or deny any claim without our written agreement.
Legal Expenses
We will pay you up to £25,000 for reasonable and necessary
legal costs you or your legal personal representative(s) have
to pay in order to claim compensation or damages for your
personal injury or death caused by the negligence of a third
party during the period of insurance.
We have complete control over the legal proceedings,
but you can recommend a suitable solicitor or other
appropriately qualified person to represent you but we
do not have to appoint them.
We will not pay legal expenses for bringing a legal action
in more than one country for the same event.
If there is any dispute between you and us in relation to
this Section then you may refer this dispute to arbitration.
Exclusions
We will not pay you a legal expenses claim for:
- claims against a travel agent, tour operator, carrier, us or
our agents, a carrier or any provider under a tour
operator package arrangement;
- claims against your travelling companion;
- actions against a close relative;
- legal expenses which you have incurred before we have
agreed to support you;
- claims relating to case that we think you are unlikely to
win or where the cost of action could be more than the
settlement or where there is no reasonable prospect of
any award being paid;
- incidental expenses such as travelling costs;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions.
Section 4 - Optional Cover
Winter Sports Cover
(If you have bought Annual Multi Trip insurance you
are covered up to 17 days in any single policy period for
winter sports cover. For single trip cover, you must pay
the appropriate additional premium to include winter
sports cover).
If you are going on a winter sports holiday and have paid
the appropriate additional premium, the words "winter
sports" (as defined within hazardous activities) is amended
to read "ski racing, ski-jumping, snowboarding without a
leash, off piste skiing unless accompanied by a qualified
guide or instructor, heliskiing, ice hockey, bobsleighing,
the use of skeletons, toboggans or luges, freestyle skiing,
competitive skiing".
In addition, extra cover is provided under the "Personal
Belongings and Personal Money" Sections as shown below.
The following additional cover is provided:
Winter Sports Equipment
We will pay you up to £400 for the replacement cost
(less an amount for wear and tear) of skis, bindings,
boots and poles owned by you if they are lost, stolen or
damaged. For hired equipment we will pay you up to £150.
We will not pay the first £35 for any loss, charge or expense
incurred in respect of each claim under the Winter Sports
Equipment section. (This exclusion will not apply if you pay
the excess waiver premium).
Ski Hire
We will pay you up to £300 (£15 per day) if your own
equipment is temporarily lost in transit for longer than
12 hours on the outward journey or is lost, damaged or
stolen during the trip.
Ski Pack
We will pay you up to £400 (£200 per week) for the
unused part of ski pack costs that you have not used if you
fall ill or become injured during the trip.
(Ski pack means ski hire, ski lessons and lift pass).
Piste closure
We will pay you up to £200 (£20 per day) for extra costs of
transport and ski lift pass if you have to travel to another
resort if you are unable to ski due to adverse weather
conditions at your pre-booked resort (only available for
trips between 15th December and 31st March).
If it is not possible to travel to another resort or it is not
possible to ski, we will pay £20 per day for each 24-hour
period you are unable to ski.
Avalanche and Landslide
We will pay you up to £200 for extra travel and
accommodation costs if an avalanche or landslide delays
your arrival at or departure from the booked resort for
more than 12 hours.
Winter Sports Equipment and Ski Hire
Exclusions
We will not pay for:
- loss or damage caused by general wear and tear;
- other than in respect of temporary loss, the first £35 of
each claim you make will not be paid (This exclusion will
not apply if you pay the excess waiver premium);
- any money you can get from someone or
somewhere else;
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions
Conditions
We will not pay you the benefits for Winter sports
Equipment if:
- 
you fail to exercise reasonable care for the safety and
supervision of your property;
- 
you fail to obtain a written police report within 24 hours
of the discovery in the event of loss or theft;
- 
you fail to obtain a carriers report or in the case of an
airline a Property Irregularity Report where your
property has been lost or damaged in transit;
- 
yourpersonal belongings are delayed, detained or
confiscated by customs or other officials.
Ski Pack
Exclusions
We will not pay for:
- Accidental injury illness or death caused directly or
indirectly by your participation in the following winter
sports - Ski-racing, ski-jumping, snowboarding without a
leash, off-piste skiing unless accompanied by a qualified
guide or instructor, heliskiing, ice hockey, bobsleighing,
the use of skeletons, toboggans or luges, freestyle-skiing,
competitive skiing;
- 
we will not pay you for any claim excluded by the
general exclusions.
Piste Closure
Exclusions
We will not pay for:
- any claim if you booked yourtrip within 14 days
of departure unless you bought this policy at the
same time.
- any claim excluded by the general exclusions
Conditions
You must obtain written confirmation from the
appropriate authority to confirm that the piste was closed
and/or it was not possible to travel to another resort.
Avalanche and landslide
Exclusions
We will not pay for:
- any expenses you can claim under any other insurance;
- any claim if you booked yourtrip within 14 days
of departure unless you bought this policy at the
same time;
- any claim excluded by the general conditions.
Conditions
You must obtain written confirmation from the
appropriate authority to confirm the period of delay.
You will also need to tell us the scheduled time of
your arrival/departure and the actual time of your
arrival/departure.
Wedding Cover
Wedding cover is only available if you are getting married
and if the appropriate additional premium has been paid.
If you have paid the appropriate additional premium
to include this cover, the following additional cover
is provided:
Wedding rings
We will pay you up to £250 for the value or repair of each
wedding ring taken, sent in advance or purchased during
the trip if they are lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed
during the period of insurance.
Wedding gifts
We will pay you up to £1,000 for the value or repair of
your wedding gifts taken, sent in advance or purchased
during the trip if they are lost, stolen, damaged or
destroyed during the period of insurance.
Wedding attire
We will pay you up to £1,500 for the value or repair of
damaged items of wedding attire or the purchase of
similar items of wedding attire that is lost, stolen or
damaged or destroyed during the period of insurance.
For the purpose of this Section, wedding attire shall mean
dress, suit, shoes or any article of clothing and make up,
hairstyling and flowers that are bought specifically to be
worn by you on your wedding day.
Wedding photographs or video recording.
We will pay you up to £750 for:
- the reasonable additional costs you have to pay to
replace wedding photographs or video recording taken
by a professional if your photographs or video recording
are lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed within 14 days of
your wedding day and whilst you are still on your
trip/honeymoon.
- the reasonable additional cost of hiring a professional
photographer or video recording professional if the
professional originally booked to take the photographs
or video is unable to attend your wedding due to illness,
injury or unforeseen transport problems.
Conditions and Exclusions
The conditions and exclusions relating to Medical
Emergency and Associated Expenses and Personal
Belongings also apply to this Section.
In respect of b) above, you will need to provide written
confirmation from the individual hired originally to
confirm they were unable to attend your wedding.
Golf Cover
Golf cover is only applicable if the appropriate additional
premium has been paid.
If you have paid the appropriate additional premium
to include this cover, the following additional cover
is provided:
Section 3, Cancellation and Curtailment
This extends to include cover for loss of irrecoverable green
fees up to £150 which you have paid or contracted to pay;
Section 3, Personal Belongings
This extends to include:
- up to £1,000 for the loss, theft or damage to your golf
equipment during the period of insurance;
- up to £300 (£35 per day) for the hire of alternative
equipment if your golf equipment is lost for more than
12 hours on the outward journey.
If your golf equipment is permanently lost we will
deduct any payment made for temporary loss from
the final settlement. All receipts must be produced as
proof of purchase.
Section 3, Personal Liability
This is extended to include cover for injury, loss or damage
caused by the ownership or use of a golf buggy whilst in
use on a golf course.
All terms, exclusions and conditions of Cancellation and
curtailment, personal belongings and personal liability
apply to the additional cover above.
Section 5 - General Exclusions and Conditions applying to the
whole policyWe will not pay for any claim caused by:
- war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities
(whether war be declared or not), civil war, civil
commotion, rebellion, terrorism, revolution or military
or usurped power;
- ionising radiation or radioactive contamination
from nuclear fuel or nuclear waste or any risk from
nuclear equipment;
- pressure waves caused by aircraft or other flying
machines travelling at sonic or supersonic speeds;
- 
your property being held taken destroyed or
damaged under the order of any police government
or custom officials;
- any claim arising from any material fact that you knew
about when you bought the policy unless we agreed to
it in writing;
- any currency exchange rate changes;
- any loss or expense recoverable elsewhere;
- any criminal act committed by you;
- an insured event occurring in any geographical area for
which you have not paid the appropriate premium;
- any consequential loss other than as specified in
this policy.
- any claim arising directly or indirectly from or consisting
of the failure or fear of failure or inability of any
equipment or any computer programme, whether or
not you own it, to recognise or to correctly interpret or
process any date as its true calendar date or to continue
to function correctly beyond that date.
Conditions
You must comply with the policy conditions as failure to do
so may result in you not being fully covered and a claim
not being paid. These conditions apply to the whole policy.
- 
we will not refund any premium after 14 days from the
date this policy was issued;
- 
you must take all reasonable steps to prevent and
minimise loss;
- 
you must tell us in writing as soon as possible after any
event, which leads or may lead to a claim under this
policy. You must also tell us as soon as possible if you
know of any actual or intended legal action against you;
- 
you, or any person acting for you, must not deal with
any claim against you without our written agreement;
- 
you or your legal personal representative(s) must pay for
all certificates, information and evidence we may need
to investigate your claim;
- if you claim for injury or illness we may require (and pay
for) you to be medically examined. We may also require
(and pay for) a post mortem examination if you die;
- 
you are obliged to inform us of any other insurance that
may (or may not) cover the claim you are making;
- if you are covered for the same loss by another
insurance policy, no payment will be made under this
policy. This condition does not apply to the Personal
Accident or Hospital Benefit cover;
- 
we can take over, and conduct in your name, any legal
action. We may also take proceedings at our expense
and for our benefit, but in your name, to get back any
money we have paid to anyone else under the policy;
- if you or any person acting for you makes a claim
or statement knowing that it is not true (including
exaggerating a claim or giving forged or false
documents or evidence) this policy will immediately
become voidable and we will not pay any claim;
- 
you should not destroy damaged articles as we may
request sight of them;
- 
we have the right to inform the police about any
false claim.
The parties do not intend any term of this agreement to
be enforceable pursuant to the Contracts (Rights of Third
Parties) Act 1999.
Section 6 - Complaints Procedure
We set ourselves high standards, but if you are not
satisfied with our service please tell us. If you follow the
procedure set out below, we will deal with your complaint
in the most efficient way possible.
In the first instance, please contact;
The Company Secretary
Financial Insurance Company Limited
Vantage West
Great West Road
Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9AG
Alternatively you can telephone Financial Insurance
Company Limited on 0870 400 4870 to have your call
directed to an appropriate person. You should give details
of the policy number or claims reference number to help
you with the speedy handling of your enquiry.
After this action, if you are still not happy or the problem
has not been resolved to your satisfaction, you may refer
it to:
The Financial Ombudsman Service
South Quay Plaza
183 Marsh Wall
London E14 9SR
Telephone 0845 0801 800
If you complain it will not affect your legal rights.
cahoot is a trading division of Abbey National plc.
Abbey National plc and Financial Insurance Company
Limited are members of the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC).
Abbey National plc acts as an insurance intermediary.
We accept responsibility for compliance with the GISC
General Insurance code for private customers. A copy of
the code is available on request or from the GISC website
 www.gisc.co.uk
cahoot have chosen Financial Insurance Company Limited
as the supplier of your travel insurance.
cahoot is a registered trademark of Abbey National plc.
Section 7 - Claims Procedure
We support the Association of British Insurers claims
code. You can be provided with a copy of this code
upon request.
To make a claim you (or your legal personal representative(s))
should contact us as soon as reasonably possible.
Telephone 0870 400 4895 or in writing to GE Financial
Insurance, Claims Department, PO Box 198, Brentford,
Middlesex, TW8 9AF.
Please ensure you have all claims and insurance
documentation to hand when you telephone including
your Policy Document and Policy Schedule.
We may record your call as part of our ongoing quality
management program.
We will not pay your claim if we cannot validate it because
you do not supply the relevant information required.
To make your claim you (or your legal personal
representative(s)) must give us any proof we request
otherwise we cannot pay any benefit.
If we ask you to send any documents to us, always send
original documents and not photocopies.
You must pay for any costs incurred in providing any
documents we may ask for.
Data Protection
You should understand and give explicit consent that the
information you provide about yourself and other members of
your party, including any sensitive information such as health
records, will be passed to or used by Financial Insurance Company
Limited and its associated companies for your insurance.
This includes underwriting, processing, handling claims and
preventing fraud and could include passing details to agents of
Financial Insurance Company Limited or other insurers and sub
contractors in the UK or any other country (even those which have
only limited or no applicable data protection laws) provided that
Financial Insurance Company Limited remain responsible for
making sure the information is held securely. Financial Insurance
Company Limited may ask other insurers for information to check
the information you have given. I understand and agree that
information about me and my policy (excluding sensitive
information e.g. health records) can be shared within cahoot
for business analysis and administrative purposes.
 
 
 
 
	IF YOU REQUIRE A LARGE TEXT,
	BRAILLE OR TAPED VERSION OF
	THIS TRAVEL INSURANCE POLICY,
	PLEASE CONTACT:
	THE DISABILITY HELPLINE
	0870 400 4854
	OR
	
	DISABILITY TEXTPHONE
	0870 400 4855
 
 
 
 
 
This insurance is underwritten by Financial Insurance
Company Limited, incorporated in England No: 1515187,
Limited by shares, Registered Address: Vantage West,
Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9AG.
Financial Insurance Company Limited is a member of the
General Insurance Standards Council(GISC)
cahoot is a trading division of Abbey National plc.
Abbey National plc acts as an Insurance Intermediary
and is a member of the General Insurance Standards
Council. We accept responsibility for the compliance with
the GISC General Insurance Code for private customers.
A copy of the code is available on request or from the
GISC website www.gisc.co.uk
Abbey National plc, Registered Office:
Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square, Regent's Place,
London, NW1 3AN, registered number 2294747.
Registered in England.
cahoot is a registered trademark of Abbey National plc.
www.cahoot.com
Important - What to do if you need medical treatment or need to
be repatriated while you are abroad.
24-hour Medical Emergency and Assistance
Services in the USA/Canada/South America/Caribbean
You must call cahoot Travel Emergency Services
immediately, or as soon as reasonably possible, to
authorise any expense in relation to any illness or
accident where you may require medical
treatment or if you have to return early or
extend your stay because of any illness or injury.
If you call us prior to in-patient or outpatient
Treatment we will direct you to a qualified,
accredited medical provider who will bill us
directly for the treatment you receive.
USA/Canada/South America/Caribbean (24 Hrs)
Phone: Toll Free 1-877-566-2681
Or Non Toll Free 001-819-566-2681
24-hour Medical Emergency and Assistance
Services in Europe and the rest of the world
You must call cahoot Travel Emergency Services
immediately, or as soon as reasonably possible, to
authorise any expense in relation to any illness or
accident where you may require medical
treatment or if you have to return early or
extend your stay because of any illness or injury.
Europe and the Rest of the World (24 Hrs)
Phone: +44 (0) 20 8847 8095
 
 
Please give cahoot Travel Emergency Services
your name, age and policy number
It is a condition of the policy that cahoot Travel
Emergency Services will be responsible for all
decisions on the most suitable practical and
reasonable solution to any problem.
 
 
 { top } 
 
 
