
Abbey National: Personal Banking : Personal Banking conditions
	
	
 	
	
	
 	 
 	 	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 	
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	 	 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
	Homepage 
	
	Interest Rates 
	
	How to Contact Us 
	
	Apply Now 
	
	The Abbey National Group 
	
 
	
	
 	 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	
	 
	Mortgages 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Savings 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Personal Banking 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	Abbey National Bank Account
	
	Switcher Service
	
	Accounts For Young People
	
	Instant Plus Account
	
	Sweep Facility
	
	Travel Money Service
	
	Sending or receiving money worldwide
	
	Credit scoring
	
	Personal Banking conditions
	
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Credit Card 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Loans 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Investments 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Pensions 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Protecting & Insuring 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Accounts For Young People 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Abbey National business 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Abbey National at work 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Abbey National Personal Banking Conditions ('the Conditions'):
a set out the contract between you and us;
b explain our obligations to you, and your obligations to us;
c may be varied by us - see Conditions 4.4 and 15 for details;
d are in addition to any other conditions which are implied or included in the contract
between us by law, even if they do not appear in these Conditions.
For convenience we refer to your Abbey National Bank Account or Instant Plus Account in
these Conditions as your 'Account'. The Conditions are in two parts. Part A contains the
General Conditions which apply to your Account and any related card or other services you
may use with the Account. Part B deals with the terms specific to your Account. In some
places these Conditions refer to details, for example about the key features of your
Account or card or about our interest rates and charges, which we will give to you
separately from these Conditions. Those details and key features also form part of the
contract between us and will be subject to the General Conditions of your Account.
'Linked Account' means any other account you have with us which you can also access using
any of your cards. Cards and services available with your Account and Linked Accounts may
have their own further special conditions which also apply. If such a special condition
differs from these Conditions, the special condition is the one that applies. If you need
any further information about your Account or an explanation of any of these Conditions,
please contact any of our branches or telephone 08459 724 724.
Part A
General Conditions
1 Information about your Account
When we open your Account we will give you written details explaining its key features.
2 Withdrawals and deposits and the balance on your Account
2.1 Details of the clearance times for cheques deposited at an Abbey National Branch, or by
using an Abbeylink machine, can be found in Part B.
2.2 You may make deposits using your card at some of our Abbeylink machines, using the
envelopes provided. You can also deposit cash using an Abbeylink machine. The availability
of cash for withdrawal, if deposited using an Abbeylink machine, is dealt with in Part B.
You may only deposit sterling bank notes and sterling cheques payable to you. If the
amount we actually receive differs from that stated by you, we will adjust your Account by
the amount involved and notify you that we have done this.
2.3 The balance shown on your Account may include cheques and other items paid into it which
have not yet been cleared and we may refuse to allow you to draw against these items. If
an uncleared item is returned unpaid we will debit your Account with the amount and with
any interest we have paid you on it, even if you have already withdrawn against it. You
may incur a charge and, if debiting the item overdraws your Account, interest may be
charged. You must then bring the Account back up to the authorised position.
2.4 Cheques normally become out of date after 6 months and so you should pay them in so that
they clear in time.
2.5 Bankers' drafts and counter cheques (other than those issued by us) will be cleared in the
same manner as cheques paid into your Account.
2.6 Automated withdrawals from your Account (e.g. Standing Orders, Direct Debits or cheque
payments) will normally be debited at the beginning of the working day they are due.
Deposits paid into your Account on the day an automated withdrawal is expected may not
therefore be available to meet that withdrawal.
2.7 There are maximum daily limits on the cash you can withdraw from your Account using your
cheque book or card. When you open your Account or when you are issued with a card we will
tell you what the limits are. These limits may change.
2.8 If you use an Abbeylink machine or our Telephone Banking Service to make a transfer
between your Accounts, it may take a further banking day for the transfer to be completed.
2.9 If you deposit funds without indicating to which Account they should be credited, we will
credit them to whichever of your Accounts we think appropriate.
2.10 There is no charge for withdrawing cash from your Account at an Abbeylink machine. There
may be a charge for cash withdrawals at other cash machines in the UK and abroad. Details
are set out in our tariff of charges.
3 Cheques, counter cheques and bankers' drafts
3.1 You should not write a future date on a cheque. If you do and the cheque is presented for
payment before that date we can decide whether to pay or return it. In either case, we
will not be liable to you.
3.2 We will 'stop' one of your cheques at your request as long as:
(a) the cheque has not already been paid;
(b) you give us sufficient details; and
(c) you have not used a card to guarantee payment of the cheque.
We cannot 'stop' a counter cheque or banker's draft which you have asked us to draw for
you.
3.3 You must notify us as soon as possible after you become aware that your cheque book has
been lost or stolen.
3.4 On request, and subject to there being available funds in your Account, we will provide
counter cheques and bankers' drafts.This service is not available to close your Account.
3.5 You will not be issued with a cheque book if you have an Instant Plus Account.
4 Interest and charges
4.1 We may pay you interest on your Account when it is in credit and charge you interest if it
is overdrawn. A higher rate of interest will be charged if your overdraft has not been
authorised in advance. This applies to the excess above any authorised overdraft limit.
Authorised overdrafts are only available to persons aged 18 or over. We will tell you what
the rates are, how interest will be calculated and about any changes in the rates.
4.2 We will tell you our Tariff of Charges for basic account services and about any changes in
the tariff. We will also tell you about any charge for a service related to your Account
which is not in our tariff. We will do this on request or before or when we provide the
service to you.
4.3 Interest and charges will normally be credited or debited, as appropriate, to your Account
on the same day each month, unless you have requested a change of statement date. We will
give you at least 14 days' notice of amounts to be debited.
4.4 We may change our interest rates or our charges at any time, for one or more of the
following reasons:
(a) to maintain the competitiveness of our business as a whole, taking into account actual or
expected changes in market conditions;
(b) to reflect actual or expected changes in money market interest rates;
(c) to ensure that our business is run prudently;
(d) to reflect a change in general banking practice;
(e) to reflect any regulatory requirements or guidance, or any change in the law or a
decision or recommendation by the Court or an Ombudsman;
(f) to enable us to harmonise our banking or charging arrangements;
(g) to reflect changes in technology or in the direct costs we are required to pay to others,
or to take account of inflation;
(h) for any reason which is valid. If we do so we will give you notice and you are free to
close
your Account immediately without loss of credit interest but you must repay any overdraft,
interest or charges outstanding on your Account. We will give you at least 7
days' notice of any change in our interest rates and at least 30 days' notice of any
change in our charges. We may introduce charges for different types of transaction by
giving you at least 30 days' notice.
5 Automated payments
If your Account becomes overdrawn where we have not given you an overdraft, or if you have
an overdraft but have exceeded your limit, we may cancel any of your Direct Debits,
Standing Orders and other direct payments from your Account. We will normally give you at
least 7 days notice but in exceptional circumstances, where we consider this necessary to
prevent abuse of your Account, we may cancel a payment without giving you notice. If your
Account is subsequently in credit, or within your overdraft limit, those payments will not
be automatically reinstated. If you wish to reinstate them you must apply in writing.
6 Foreign transactions
Before crediting or debiting a transaction in a foreign currency to yourAccount we will
convert it into sterling at our current rate for that type of transaction.
7 Your address
The address that you give us or, in the case of a joint Account, either of you gives us
will be the one to which all communications will be sent. You must confirm any change of
address in writing.
8 Joint Accounts
8.1 Two of you (but not more) may have an Account in joint
names. If so:
(a) both of you will be liable (individually and together) for any
money due to us; and
(b) each of you is authorised to operate your Account on your
own where:
i any cards or cheque books are issued on the Account; or
ii you have registered with our Telephone Banking Service.
iii you have registered for the on-line service.
8.2 Neither of you may allow the other to use your cards,Personal Identification Number (PIN),
Telephone Registration Number (TRN), information which allows access to the on-line
service or selected personal information.
8.3 We will transfer a joint Account into the sole name of one of you at the request of both
of you as long as the Account is in order and we are satisfied that the continuing Account
holder is of sufficient financial standing to operate the Account alone.
8.4 If one of you dies, the Account will continue in the name of the surviving Account holder.
9 Statements
We will send you statements at regular intervals. In the case of joint Accounts we will
send one statement addressed to both of you unless you tell us in writing that you each
require separate statements.
10 Taxation
You may be able to register with us to receive interest gross. Otherwise interest will be paid net of income tax at the prescribed rate.
11 Your Account is not transferable
You cannot transfer your rights in your Account to someone else. This means that you
cannot, for example, use the funds on your Account as security for money you borrow from
someone else. This does not affect any transfer that takes effect by law, for example
under your Will.
12 Remote access conditions
12.1 When you register for the Abbey National on-line service or telephone banking service you
will be able to operate your Account using the Internet, telephone banking service and
other channels, depending on which you register for. You will still be able to operate
your Account and obtain services in the same way as you could before you registered for
the on-line service or telephone banking (e.g. by using an Abbeylink machine). For full
details of our on-line service and our telephone banking service, including our User
Guides, please visit http://www.abbeynational.co.uk, your local branch or call our
Telephone Banking Service on 08459 724 724. When you first register to access your Account
on-line, you will be asked to
accept the conditions of the on-line service. You will also be asked to accept any changes
to those conditions as and when they are made. You will not be able to access the on-line
service until you have accepted the Terms and Conditions of use.
12.2 Telephone Banking Service
When you register, we will issue you with a confidential TRN to use or you may select it
yourself at any of our Abbeylink machines. For security reasons, we will not act on
telephone instructions if we are in doubt as to your identity.
12.3 Joint Account Access
If you have an Account in more than one name, each of you can register for the on-line
service and telephone banking. Each of you that registers for Telephone Banking will be given your own TRN, and will be
able to operate your registered Account and access available services on your own.
12.4 Withdrawal of your access to the service
We may withdraw your TRN if we believe that this is necessary for security reasons or to
prevent misuse of remote access services, or of any of your accounts which you operate, or
related services which you can access, using telephone banking. We may do this for example
if there have been too many unsuccessful attempts to access telephone banking using an
incorrect TRN.
13 Using your cards
13.1 Information about your Cards
When you apply for your Account or at a later stage you can also apply for the appropriate
card(s) to access or operate your Account. When we issue you with a card we will give you
written details explaining its key features, for example how it can be used to withdraw
cash, make payments or guarantee cheques. Use of a card includes use of its number and
other details, for example to carry out transactions over the telephone. There may be a
charge for some uses of the card and we will tell you what these are, for example through
our Tariff of Charges. We will notify you of the PIN to be used with your card. We may
also ask you to provide a password or selected personal information as a means of
identification, for example when buying goods or services with your card.
13.2 Authorisation, finality and refunds of debit card transactions
(a) We may be requested to authorise a purchase or other payment you make with your debit card
before it can be completed. If we do, your Account balance will be reduced by the amount
of the authorisation. We may refuse a request for authorisation.
(b) All debit card payments using an Electron card require authorisation and we will only
authorise them if there are sufficient available funds on your Account.
(c) Once a purchase or other payment with your debit card has been carried out, you cannot
cancel it.
(d) Where a retailer or other person you have paid with your debit card gives you a refund,
your Account will be re-credited when we receive the refund.
13.3 Guaranteeing cheques
(a) Your card may enable you to guarantee cheques. If so, you may use it in the UK,
Gibraltar, Isle of Man or Channel Islands to guarantee payment of a personal cheque up to
the limit of the card. The person you pay the cheque to must write your card number on the
cheque. You cannot cash more than one guaranteed cheque a day. The guarantee is governed
by the rules of the Cheque Card Scheme, details of which are available on request.
(b) You must not use your card to guarantee a cheque for more than the available funds on your
Account.
(c) We may debit a guaranteed cheque to your Account even if it contains legal or technical
irregularities.
13.4 Terminating or suspending use of your card or cheque book
(a) We may terminate or suspend your right to use a card or cheque book at any time if we
believe that it is necessary for our protection. Unless we consider that more urgent
action is necessary, we will give you at least 7 days' notice. Cards and cheque books
remain our property and we may require you to return them to us and may ask anyone acting
for us to retain them.
(b) You may terminate your right to use a card by giving notice and returning it to us. Before
returning your card you must cut it in two.
(c) Following termination, these Conditions will continue to apply to any amounts you owe as
a result of use of your card.
14 Care of personal information
14.1 Loss or misuse of a card
(a) If you find that your card has been lost, stolen or misused, or you think it may be
misused, or if you believe that your password or selected personal information has become
known to another person, then you must notify us as soon as possible either at any branch
or by telephoning:
ABBEY NATIONAL CARD SERVICES
TELEPHONE NUMBER (24-HOUR SERVICE) 0845 9344 900
or, if you call from overseas +44 1908 344900
ADDRESS: THE MANAGER, CARD SERVICES, ABBEY HOUSE, 201 GRAFTON GATE EAST, MILTON KEYNES MK9
1AN.
We will take immediate steps to prevent them from being used to access your Account. We
will accept written notification of the loss or theft of your card from any recognised
card registration bureau acting for you, from VISA and from any VISA Member.
(b) Your are not liable for misuse of the card before you receive it or after you have
notified us under Condition 14.1a of the loss, theft or misuse of the card. Otherwise, if
your card is misused by someone else we may only debit up to £50 to your Account,
except as set out in Condition 14.3.
14.2 Security for telephone banking transactions 
We take great care, by following regulatory requirements and good industry practice on
system security, to ensure that only you can carry out telephone banking transactions on
your registered account and have access to related telephone banking services. You will
not be liable for a telephone banking transaction on your Account which was not carried
out by you or for access to or use of related telephone
banking services by someone else, except as set out in Condition 14.3.
14.3 Your liability for card and telephone banking transactions
(a) You will be liable for transactions on your Account in the following cases:
i you authorised the carrying out of the transaction or the access to or use of the
services;
ii you acted without reasonable care, which includes failing to follow the safeguards in
Condition 14.4 below; or
iii you acted fraudulently.
In any of these cases we will debit your Account with the amount of the transaction.
(b) If you dispute that you have carried out a card or telephone banking transaction, we will
expect you to co-operate with us and the police in any investigations. We may give the
police any information we consider relevant to enable them to carry out their
investigations. We will have the burden of proving any allegation of fraud or failure to
act with reasonable care, or that a card has been received by you.
14.4 Care of your cards, PINs, TRNs and selected personal information
(a) Your TRN cannot be the same as your PIN. We may withdraw your PIN or TRN if we believe
that this is necessary for security reasons to prevent misuse of a card or your Account,
for example where the wrong number is used more than once. You will then need to apply for
a new PIN or TRN via a branch or our Telephone Banking Service. If you need a new PIN you
will also need to apply for a new TRN, if you have one.
(b) The care of your cheque books, cards, PINs, TRNs and selected personal information is
essential to help prevent fraud and protect your Account. To ensure this you MUST:
i sign your card in permanent ink as soon as you receive it;
ii destroy the notification of your PIN or TRN, as soon as you receive it;
iii always take reasonable steps to keep your cards safe and your PIN, TRN and selected
personal information secret;
iv not keep your cheque books and cards together;
v never write down or record your PIN or TRN on your card or on anything kept with or near
it.
vi not allow anyone else to use your cards, PIN, TRN or selected personal information (not
even someone with whom you share a joint Account); 
vii never disclose your PIN or TRN, not even to a member of Abbey National staff.
viii Never write down or record your PIN, TRN or selected personal information without
disguising it. It is always safest to memorise these. You may be asked to disclose a
password or other selected personal information for security reasons. You can change your
PIN at any Abbey National cash machine and you must do this if you think that anyone else
(even a member of your family) knows your PIN.
PLEASE REMEMBER: ANYONE IN POSSESSION OF YOUR CARD WHO KNOWS THE PIN CAN GAIN ACCESS TO
YOUR ACCOUNT AND ANY LINKED ACCOUNT.
15 Variation of these Conditions
15.1 The circumstances in which we can vary these Conditions Please note: Condition 4.4 deals
with the variation of interest rates and charges. We may remove, change or add to these
Conditions and key features of your Account by giving you at least 30 days' notice:
(a) to conform with or anticipate any changes in the law, Codes of Practice or recommendations
of the Financial Services Authority or any other appropriate regulatory authority;
(b) to provide for the introduction of new or improved systems, methods of operation,
services or facilities;
(c) to take account of a ruling by a Court, Ombudsman, Regulator or similar body;
(d) to reflect general banking practice;
(e) to make them clearer or more favourable to you;
(f) to ensure that our business is run prudently;
(g) to rectify any mistake that might be discovered in due course.
16 Notices
Any notice under these Conditions must unless otherwise specified be given in writing as
follows:
(a) by you to us, at any of our branches, or to Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square,
Regent's Place, London NW1 3AN, or in relation to your cards, to the Manager, Card
Services, Abbey House, 201 Grafton Gate East, Milton Keynes MK9 1AN.
(b) by us to you, by either: personal notice to you; or in the case of a variation of our
interest rates or charges or any other appropriate variation in these Conditions, general
notice in three of the following national daily newspapers - The Daily Telegraph, The
Daily Mail, The Mirror or The Guardian. In addition, we may also display a general notice
in our branches.
(c) If we give you notice to vary these Conditions, you may if you wish close your Account.
See Condition 4.4.
17 Inability to provide services
If we are unable to provide services generally or any particular services to you because
of any causes beyond our control (including, but not limited to, strikes, industrial
action or the failure of equipment or power supplies), we will not be liable to you for
any loss which you may suffer.
18 Recording and monitoring telephone calls
To help us improve our service we may record or monitor phone calls.
19 Where someone else is managing your affairs
In the event that you become mentally incapable of managing your affairs, your Account can
be operated or closed by anyone who has been appointed by the Court. This includes someone
who has been appointed by you under an Enduring Power of Attorney, once it has been
registered with the Court.
20 Closing your Account or surrendering a card
(a) You can close your Account at any time by giving us notice. There may be a time when we
ask you to close your Account. If we decide to do this we will wherever possible give you
at least 30 days' notice unless there are exceptional circumstances, e.g. fraud. In either
case these Conditions will continue to apply to your Account until any cheques drawn on it
and other amounts you owe on it have been paid, and all cards and cheque books have been
returned to us.
(b) We may also close your Account by returning any credit balance to you if for a period of
13 months there have been no customer transactions, the amount due to you is less than
£50 and we have given you at least 30 days' notice.
21 Governing law
These Conditions are governed by the law of the country in the UK (i.e. England and Wales,
Scotland or Northern Ireland) where you opened your Account.
22 Your statutory rights are not affected
Nothing in these Conditions will affect your statutory rights.
PART B
23 Deposits and withdrawals
23.1 Cheque deposits
(a) Subject to Condition 2.3, if you pay a cheque over the counter at an Abbey National
branch, the money will normally be available so that you can draw against it on the third
working day after the day that it is paid in. Interest will be earned from the second
working day after it is paid in, if your Account is in credit.
For cheques paid in over the counter
	
 
	
	
	Day cheque paid in 
	
	Day interest earned 
	
	Day funds available 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
Monday 
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
Thursday 
	
	
	
	
	
Tuesday 
	
	
Thursday 
	
	
Friday 
	
	
	
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
Friday 
	
	
Monday 
	
	
	
	
	
Thursday 
	
	
Monday 
	
	
Tuesday 
	
	
	
	
	
Friday 
	
	
Tuesday 
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
	
	
	
Saturday 
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
Thursday 
	
	
	
	
(b) Deposits using an Abbeylink machine will normally take an extra working day to clear. This
means that interest will be earned from the third working day after the cheque is paid in
(if your Account is in credit) and the money will be available so that you can draw
against it on the fourth working day after the day the cheque is paid in.
(c) When you can draw against cheques paid in by any other means (e.g. by post) will depend
on when we receive the cheque. This also applies to interest earned, if your Account is in
credit.
(d) Special arrangements apply to Foreign Currency cheques. Cheque clearance times for cheques
which are in a currency other than sterling will vary. Wherever possible, details will be
given to you when you deposit the cheque. 
23.2 Cash deposits
(a) If you pay in cash over the counter at an Abbey National branch, the money will normally
be available so that you can draw against it on the same day.
(b) If you pay in cash (notes only) at an Abbeylink machine, the money will be available for
withdrawal on the second working day after the day it is paid in. Interest will be earned
from the next day after the day the cash is paid in (if your Account is in credit).
For cash (notes only) paid in at an Abbeylink machine
	
 
	
	
	Day cash paid in 
	
	Day interest earned 
	
	Day funds available 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
Monday 
	
	
Tuesday 
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
	
	
	
Tuesday 
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
Thursday 
	
	
	
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
Thursday 
	
	
Friday 
	
	
	
	
	
Thursday 
	
	
Friday 
	
	
Monday 
	
	
	
	
	
Friday 
	
	
Saturday 
	
	
Tuesday 
	
	
	
	
	
Saturday 
	
	
Sunday 
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
	
	
	
Sunday 
	
	
Monday 
	
	
Wednesday 
	
	
	
	
(c) A working day is any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or English public holiday. A cheque
or cash paid in on a day that is not a working day is treated as paid in on the next
working day for the purpose of establishing when the funds become available.
24 Overdrafts
24.1 You can apply for an overdraft on your Abbey National Bank Account. If we give you an
overdraft we will tell you your limit and the interest rate applicable. We can change your
limit at any time, or the rate applying to your overdraft in accordance with Condition
4.4. We can also require you to repay your overdraft at any time. As long as you have not
exceeded your overdraft limit, we will wherever possible give you at least 28 days'
notice. We will not give you an overdraft on an Instant Plus Account.
24.2 We also have the right to pay off or reduce an overdrawn balance on your Account by
transferring funds from any of your other accounts with us (other than a mortgage
account).
24.3 An unauthorised overdraft occurs if without our agreement you overdraw your Account or
exceed the limit of an overdraft which we have agreed. If you overdraw your Account when
we have not given you an overdraft you are in breach of these Conditions and must
immediately pay sufficient money into your Account to put it into credit, taking account
of any interest and charges you will have incurred. Similarly, if you exceed the limit of
an overdraft which we have given you, you must immediately pay sufficient money into your
Account to bring yourself within your overdraft limit.
24.4 If you have an unauthorised overdraft, you will be charged fees as set out in our tariff
or specified to you (please see Condition 4.1) and these may include fees for transactions
we are unable to process due to lack of available funds on your Account.
25 Payments into the Account
You must maintain regular payments into your Account. The minimum regular payment is the
amount we notified to you when you opened your Account. If you do not maintain regular
payments into your Account, we may close it by giving you at least 30 days' notice. You
may also be expected to credit a minimum amount to your Account in order to benefit from
specific account features. If this is the case, we will notify you of the minimum amount
required.
SCHEDULE
Multifunction Card agreement
If you have a Multifunction Card which was issued before 12 July 1999, you will have
signed a Multifunction Card Agreement containing the terms set out in this Schedule. In
this case the terms of that agreement will also apply. The terms of the Multifunction Card
Agreement which is a credit agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974:
1 cover the issue to you of a Multifunction Card (for convenience referred to as the 'card')
to use on your Abbey National Bank Account (the 'Account') and your use of any card on
that Account
2 include our Personal Banking Conditions. For convenience, we refer to these in this
Agreement as the 'Conditions'.
Financial and related particulars
1 If we give you an overdraft, we will notify you of your overdraft limit. We can change
your limit by notice to you at any time.
2 The current rates of interest on authorised Overdrafts are 1.16% per month (Annual Percentage Rate 14.9%) for the Preferred In-Credit Rate, and 0.7% per month (Annual Percentage Rate 8.7%) for the Preferred Overdraft
Rate. The current rate of interest on an unauthorised overdraft is 2.01% per month (Annual Percentage Rate 27.0%). An unauthorised overdraft occurs if without our agreement you overdraw your Account or
exceed the limit of an overdraft which we have agreed.
3 We may at any time:
- vary the interest rate and Annual Percentage Rate
- vary our charges applicable to the Account
- introduce charges (please see Condition 4).No account has been taken of any such variations in the calculation of the Annual
Percentage Rates.
4 We can require you to repay your overdraft at any time. As long as you have not exceeded
your overdraft limit, we will wherever possible give you at least 28 days' notice (please
see Condition 24.1). If your Account was opened on or after 6 May 1997 you must maintain a
regular monthly salary payment or monthly standing order payment into your Account. The
minimum monthly payment is the amount we notified to you when you opened your Account. If
you do not keep up the minimum monthly payments we may close your Account by giving you at
least 30 days' notice.
5 If you have an unauthorised overdraft, you will be charged fees as set out in our tariff
or specified to you (please see Condition 4.1) and these may include fees for transactions
we are unable to process due to lack of available funds on your Account.
6 There is no charge where you withdraw cash from your Account at an Abbeylink machine.
There may be a charge for cash withdrawals at other cash machines in the UK and abroad.
Details are set out in our tariff of charges.
7 Your right to cancel
Once you have signed this agreement, you will have for a short time a right to cancel that
part of this agreement which is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Exact details
of how and when you can do this will be sent to you by post by us.
8 Variation or termination of the Agreement
We may vary this Agreement (please see Conditions 4.4 and 15) or terminate it (please see
Condition 20).
IMPORTANT - YOU SHOULD READ THIS CAREFULLY
Your rights
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 covers this agreement and lays down certain requirements for
your protection which must be satisfied when the agreement is made. If they are not, we
cannot enforce the agreement against you without a court order. The Act also gives you a
number of rights. You have a right to settle this agreement at any time by giving notice
in writing and paying off all amounts payable under the agreement. If you have obtained
unsatisfactory goods or services under a transaction financed by this agreement, apart
from any purchased out of a cash loan, you may have a right to sue the supplier, us or
both. Similarly, if the contract is not fulfilled, perhaps because the supplier has gone
out of business, you may still be able to sue us. If you would like to know more about the
protection and remedies provided under the Act, you should contact either your local
Trading Standards Department or your nearest Citizens' Advice Bureau.
Loss or misuse of Multifunction Card or Abbeylink Card
If the Multifunction Card or Abbeylink Card is lost, stolen or misused by someone who
obtained it without your consent, you may be liable for up to £50 of any loss to us.
If it is misused with your permission, you will probably be liable for ALL losses. You
will not be liable for losses to us which take place after you have told us of the theft,
etc. provided you confirm any oral message in writing within 7 days. However, the
Multifunction Card or Abbeylink Card can also be used under an agreement to which this
protection does not apply. As a result, there may be circumstances under which we could
enforce full liability against you. The statement above is made to comply with Regulations
made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and explains your liability if your card is used
by someone else and that use is covered by the Act. Not all use of your card is covered by
the Act and a full explanation of the extent to which you may be liable is given in
Condition 14.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 	
 	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By the way...
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Some organisations will give you a discount for paying by Direct Debit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 
	
	
 
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	Peace of Mind Guarantee 
	Privacy Statement 
	Important legal information 
	
	
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP YOUR REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. ABBEY NATIONAL PLC, WHICH IS REGULATED BY THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY ONLY ADVISES ON ITS OWN LIFE ASSURANCE, PENSION AND COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME PRODUCTS. THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY DOES NOT REGULATE THE PROVISION OF MORTGAGES, CREDIT CARDS AND UNSECURED PERSONAL LOAN AGREEMENTS.TO HELP US IMPROVE OUR SERVICE WE MAY RECORD OR MONITOR PHONE CALLS.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
