
 
 
HSBC - Stakeholder Pensions
 
"100%">
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stakeholder
 Pensions 
 
 
 
 Decision 
 Tree 
 
 
 
 
 I 
 am
 self-employed 
 
 
 
 
 I 
 am employed 
 
 
 
 
 I 
 am a
 non-earner 
 
 
 
 Setting 
 up a Stakeholder Pension online 
 
 
 
 Investment 
 choice calculator 
 
 
 
 Apply 
 for a Stakeholder Pension online 
 
 
 
 Jargon 
 buster 
 
 
 
 Important 
 notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stakeholder Pensions Decision Trees 
 
You should read these notes before using the 
 Decision Trees. 
 
Decision Trees provide information to help you 
 answer the question: "Would a Stakeholder Pension be a good choice 
 for me as part of my financial planning for retirement?" 
 
What is a Stakeholder Pension? 
 A Stakeholder Pension is a new 
 private pension, it's not a State 
 pension. You can get a Stakeholder Pension if your are in 
 employment, a fixed contract worker, self-employed or even not working 
 but able to afford contributions. You can get one from a bank, building 
 society, insurance company, investment company or through a financial 
 adviser. 
 
You pay contributions regularly which are invested 
 to build up your own pension fund. You can also pay lump-sum contributions 
 whenever you like. 
 
When you retire, you use your fund to buy an 
 "annuity". The annuity will pay you a regular income during 
 your retirement. That income will depend on the size of your fund 
 and the annuity rates at the time you take your pension. 
 
You can't withdraw any money from your fund 
 before you take your pension. But when you take your pension you 
 can choose to have up to 25% of your fund as a tax-free lump sum. 
 
 
What's new about Stakeholder pensions? 
 
 Stakeholder Pensions must meet the standards 
 laid down by the Government. 
 
The standards include: 
 
 
 
 
 
- Charges
 Providers of Stakeholder Pensions usually 
 charge for managing your money. There is an upper limit 
 on this charge. The limit is 1% of the value of your fund 
 each year. The charge is taken from your fund. So if your 
 fund is worth £5,000, a 1% charge would be £50. 
 
 
 
- Flexibility 
 You can contribute regularly or occasionally. 
 It is always best to make regular weekly or monthly contributions 
 but you can change the amount. You can pay in as little 
 as £20, and you can stop paying in without having to pay 
 any penalty and restart later.
 
 If you are employed and your employers provide a Stakeholder 
 Pension, they may, if you wish, deduct your contributions 
 direct from your pay and put them into your pension fund. 
 
 
 You can take your Stakeholder Pension with you when you 
 change jobs. You can switch to another Stakeholder Pension 
 at any time if you want to, without having to pay any charges 
 for the transfer.
 
 
 
- Information 
 Your Stakeholder Pension provider must 
 give you regular information about your fund. This will 
 include an annual statement to let you know how much you 
 have paid in and how your fund is growing. It may also include 
 a forecast of how much your pension might be.
 
 
 
 
 Will I get any tax relief?
 Everybody who contributes to a Stakeholder Pension 
 will get tax relief on their contributions. 
 
Under present tax arrangements, for each £1 
 you pay in to your Stakeholder Pension fund, the Inland Revenue 
 will pay an additional 28p to your fund, even if you don't normally 
 pay income tax. 
 
 
 Example - If 
 you pay in £50 a month, the income tax relief will increase 
 your contribution to £64.10. 
 
 
 
Anyone can contribute up to £3,600 to a Stakeholder 
 Pension in any tax year, including basic-rate tax relief. What this 
 means is that you could pay in £2,808 and the income tax relief 
 would increase your contribution to £3,600.
 
 If you are employed or self-employed you might 
 be able to contribute more than £3,600 and still get income tax 
 relief, depending on your age and earnings. For example, up to age 
 35 you can contribute up to 17.5% of earnings in any tax year. If 
 you are over 35, there is a scale that allows you to contribute 
 higher percentages of your earnings. The Inland Revenue sets the 
 limits on what you can contribute to a pension scheme. 
 
If you pay income tax at the higher rate you 
 will be able to claim back the extra tax from the Inland Revenue 
 at the end of each tax year. 
 
Won't the State pensions be enough for me to 
 retire on?
 To answer this question, you need to think about 
 three things: 
 
BASIC STATE RETIREMENT PENSION 
 If you have a full National Insurance contribution 
 record, you are entitled to the full basic State Retirement Pension. 
 You cannot get your basic State Retirement Pension until you reach 
 State pension age (currently 65 for men and 60 for women) 
 
The Government reviews the State basic pension 
 every year. The rates applying from April 2001 are shown further 
 on in these notes. 
 ADDITIONAL STATE PENSION (CURRENTLY SERPS) 
 
 Only people in employment 
 qualify for the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). 
 The SERPS pension, payable when you reach State 
 pension age, depends on your earnings while you were in employment 
 and the national insurance contributions you paid. SERPS is paid in 
 addition to the basic State Retirement Pension. 
 
The Government proposes 
 to change SERPS in 2002 and rename it the State Second Pension. 
 This will give more help than SERPS to the lowest earners, particularly 
 those earning less than about £10,000 a year. 
 
Self-employed people do not qualify for the additional 
 State pension (currently SERPS). 
 
GUARANTEED MINIMUM INCOME AND PENSION CREDIT 
 
 The current Minimum Income Guarantee (MIG) is 
 a benefit that helps people with low incomes in retirement. MIG 
 is means-tested. If you apply, the Department of Social Security 
 assesses your income and decides whether you get a top-up. If you 
 qualify for a MIG top-up, or have an income just about the MIG level, 
 you may also qualify for other benefits, such as housing benefit. 
 
 
The government has announced plans to introduce 
 a new pension credit from 2003 that includes a guaranteed minimum 
 income. 
 
The basic State Retirement Pension and MIG rates 
 given are those announced by the Government on 8 November 2000 as 
 applying from April 2001.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 One person 
 
 
 Man with dependant wife 
 
 
 Couples who have both 
 paid full national insurance contribution 
 
 
 If you get the full 
 MIG top-up, your income would rise to: 
 
 
 Single person 
 
 
 Couple 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Weekly
 
 
 
 
 £72.50
 
 
 
 
 £115.90
 
 
 
 
 £72.50 each
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 £92.15 
 
 
 
 
 £104.55
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monthly
 equivalent
 
 
 
 
 £314.17 
 
 
 
 
 £502.23
 
 
 
 
 £314.17 each
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 £399.32
 
 
 
 
 609.05 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How do I get more information on my State 
 pensions?
 Rates of State pensions and benefits change every 
 year. These notes can only give you basic information about what 
 is available. Other information you can get: 
 
 
 
 
 
- A forecast of your State basic pension 
 by calling the Retirement Forecasting and Advice Unit (RPFA) 
 on 0191 218 7585 between 9am and 5pm. You can complete an 
 application form over the phone or ask for the forecast 
 form. BR19 to be sent to you. Or you can write to:
 
 RPFA
 Pensions and Overseas Directorate 
 Tyneview Park 
 Whitley Road 
 Newcastle upon Tyne 
 NE98 1BA 
 
 You can also complete and send the form direct on the internet 
 at the DSS website, www.dss.gov.uk or send it by post in the normal way.
 
 
 
- There are changes to the State pension 
 age which affect women born on or after 6 April 1950. Women 
 born on or after 6 April 1955 will not get a State pension 
 until age 65. For more information on these changes, see 
 the DSS guide Pensions for women 
 - Your guide (PM6). 
 
 
 
- The DSS produces a series of guides 
 that give basic information on pensions. You can get copies 
 by calling the Pensions Info-Line on 0845 731 3233. The 
 line is open 24 hours and calls are charged at local rate. 
 A textphone service is available on 0845 604 1210. You can 
 also order copies of these information guides on the internet 
 at www.dss.gov.uk.
 
 
 
 
 
Do I need to save more for my retirement?
 You need to make your own judgement about whether 
 State retirement pensions and any existing private pensions will 
 be enough for you to live on when you retire. Ask yourself: 
 
 
 
 
 
- Roughly how much will I need to 
 live on when I retire? 
 
 
 
 
- Is the basic State Retirement 
 Pension likely to be enough for me? 
 
- Will I qualify for an additional 
 pension through SERPS and the State Second Pension? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Have I got any other private pensions, 
 maybe from previous employers' schemes or from personal 
 pension schemes? If so, how much income will they give me?
 
 
 
 
 
Can I afford to contribute regularly to a Stakeholder 
 Pension? 
 Before you answer this question, you should ask 
 yourself: 
 
 
 
 
 
- What are my other financial commitments?
 For example, mortgage repayments, rent, 
 life assurance, and credit cards. Make sure you do your 
 sums before using the Decision Trees.
 
 
 
- Would I be prepared, if necessary, 
 to give up anything so that I can pay into a Stakeholder 
 Pension? 
 
 
 
- Should I be thinking of other things 
 first?
 For example, life assurance protection 
 for me and my family, or building up some "rainy-day" cash 
 savings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Whatever you decide you can afford, think about increasing 
 your contributions, especially when your earnings rise.
 
I can't afford to contribute much regularly - 
 won't the MIG make my contributions a waste of money? 
 The Government has said that it intends to ensure 
 that all those who have saved already, or who wish to save in the 
 future, can benefit from those savings when they retire. 
 
To achieve this, the government has announced 
 proposals to introduce a new pension credit which will overhaul 
 the current MIG arrangements from 2003. 
 
The proposals are designed to alter the present 
 situation where those who have saved to build up a second pension 
 to add to the State Retirement Pension, might be little or no better 
 off than those who haven't saved. 
 
A lot depends on the final rules for pension 
 credit and how it works out in practice. Of course, future governments 
 can change State pensions and benefits at any time and it may be 
 unwise to rely on any particular type or level being available when 
 you retire. 
 
I can't afford to contribute much regularly - 
 so what will I get from my Stakeholder Pension? 
 Stakeholder Pensions allow contributions as low 
 as £20. But a regular monthly contribution of £20 will not produce 
 a large pension when you retire. And the older you are when you 
 start saving, the less time there will be for your pension fund 
 to grow to something worthwhile. The tables in the Decision Trees 
 will give you a fair idea of the pension you could get, depending 
 on your age and contributions. 
 
The figures in the tables, however, are 
 only estimates and are not guaranteed. They 
 are also shown before income tax. When you receive your pension 
 during retirement you may be taxed on it. 
 
 
 
 
The figures are calculated on the following basis:
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Before you retire
 
 
 
 
 
 Your monthly contributions 
 increase in line
 with inflation....................................................... 
 2.5% a year 
 
 
 Before charges, your 
 fund grows by............. 
 7% a year 
 
 
 
 
Charges deducted from your fund................
 
 
 
1% of fund a year
 
 
 
 
 
 
- When you retire
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annuity rates assume that the investment return 
 after retirement is.................................
 
 5.5% a year
 (After a 4% charge has been deducted 
 from your fund) 
 
 
 Your pension increases 
 by............................ 
 2.5% a year 
 
 
 Your spouse will receive 
 half your pension
 on your death 
 
 
 
 
What does contracting out of the additional State 
 pension (currently SERPS) mean for me? 
 Everyone in employment is automatically included 
 in SERPS unless they decide to leave it. This is called 'contracting 
 out'. If you contract out, you give up any SERPS entitlement and 
 build up a replacement for it in your own private pension arrangement 
 instead. The private pension could be an employer's pension scheme 
 or your own Stakeholder Pension scheme or other personal pension. 
 
 
Some employers' occupational pension schemes 
 contract out all scheme members automatically. Other employers' 
 occupational schemes are 'contracted in' and the scheme pensions 
 are paid on top of any SERPS pensions. If you are in one of these 
 contracted in schemes, you can still decide to contract out. 
 
You can also decide to contract out if you are 
 not a member of an employer's occupational pension scheme. If you 
 contract out of SERPS this way, the Inland Revenue will pay a rebate 
 on your National Insurance contributions into your private pension 
 fund. The rebate is invested along with your own pension contributions 
 and you build up a replacement pension for the SERPS pension given 
 up. 
 
With Stakeholder and other personal pension 
 schemes, the Government sets the rebate. The rebate is set to give 
 a reasonable chance that the replacement pension will be at least 
 as big as if you had remained in SERPS. There's no guarantee that 
 you'll be better off by contracting out but generally the younger 
 you are and the more you are earning the more you stand to gain 
 if you do contract out.
 
 Contracting out is an important decision and 
 you need to consider all the implications. If you want help with 
 your decision, you should consult a financial adviser. You may have 
 to pay for this help. Or you can ask your Stakeholder Pension scheme 
 provider for a comparison of the SERPS pension you'll be giving 
 up and the possible replacement pension you might get from a private 
 arrangement. 
 
Deciding to contract out in one tax year does 
 not commit you to do the same in later years. In fact, it's a good 
 idea to review your decision regularly. You should do this, for 
 example, when the State Second Pension starts in 2002. 
 
What else do I need to check? 
 
IF YOU ARE EMPLOYED
 Employers' pension plans are always worth checking 
 first as they usually provide extra benefits, such as added contributions 
 from your employer or free life assurance.
 
You need to check: 
 
 
- Does your employer provide a pension 
 plan? 
 
- Are you a member of your employer's 
 pension plan? 
 
- If you are not a member, could 
 you join now or later? 
 
 
If your employers does 
 not provide a pension plan for you at 
 the moment, they may have to arrange 
 for a Stakeholder Pension to be available to you by 
 October 2001. 
 
 
- Ask your employers if they intend to 
 arrange a new pension plan for staff as it might be better than 
 a private pension you arrange yourself. 
 
- Your employer might agree to pay the 
 Stakeholder Pension annual charge or make payments to your fund 
 on top of your own contributions, but they don't have to. 
 
 
IF YOU ARE SELF-EMPLOYED 
 
 
- Are you contributing to a pension plan? 
 
 
 
If you have no pension to look forward to except the 
 basic State Retirement Pension, you should consider setting up a 
 personal pension, such as a Stakeholder Pension. 
 
IF YOU HAVE NO FORM OF PAID EMPLOYMENT 
 
 
- Can you afford to contribute to a pension 
 plan? 
 
 
 
You can now set up a new Stakeholder Pension. 
 You can then benefit from tax relief on your contributions, even 
 if your don't normally pay income tax. 
 
EVERYBODY
 Check on the pension plans you have contributed 
 to in the past but no longer pay into today. You need to have some 
 idea of the retirement income you might get from an old pension 
 plan. 
 
To check on the value of old pension plans, 
 look at the most recent benefit statements you have been sent. If 
 you cannot find any statements, contact the pension plan provider, 
 for example the insurance company or the employer that offered the 
 pension to you. 
 
Alternatively, the Pension Schemes Registry 
 provides a free tracing service. It can help you identify pension 
 schemes you have belonged to in the past. To contact the Pensions 
 Scheme Registry, phone them on 0191 225 6393 and ask for a tracing 
 request form or write to them at: 
 
Pension Schemes Registry 
 PO Box 1NN 
 Newcastle upon Tyne 
 NE99 1NN 
 
AND FINALLY
 You should consider getting advice if you're 
 not sure that saving in a pension plan is right for you, or if you 
 want to look at other ways of saving and investing for the long-term. 
 
 
If you are not sure what's the best thing for 
 you to do, get help. The Decision Trees suggest some organisations 
 that might be able to help you. 
 
How to use the Decision Trees 
 
 
 
 
 
- These Decision Trees have been designed 
 to help you decide whether a Stakeholder Pension would be 
 a good choice for you. Please take the time to read and 
 use them carefully, giving accurate answers to the questions. 
 The decision you take will be your responsibility. 
 
 
 
- There are three sets of Decision Trees. 
 Click on the relevant link below to go to the correct decision 
 tree. Make sure you use the right one. There is a different 
 set of trees for: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Employed 
 people 
 
- Self-employed 
 people
 
- People 
 who are not employed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- If the tree asks you a question about your 
 present pension arrangements and you are not sure about 
 the correct answer, find out the right information - don't 
 guess.
 
 
 If the tree recommends you to take advice, 
 or if you are uncertain about what is right for you, then 
 you should seek advice. You may have to pay for this advice. 
 
 
 
 
 
To proceed to your relevant decision tree, click 
 one of the links below:
 
 I 
 am employed 
 I 
 am self-employed 
 I 
 am not employed
 
 
	
 
 Some of the information used in these materials 
 comes from sources outside the FSA and PIA. Neither the FSA 
 nor PIA guarantee or warrant the accuracy of the information 
 included in these materials, and does not accept any liability 
 for errors or omissions. Neither the FSA nor PIA shall be liable 
 for any damages arising in contract, tort or otherwise from 
 any action or decision taken as a result of using these materials 
 or any of them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
