
Personal Finances - Mortgages & Remortages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Links to other sections
 _____________________________
 Personal Finances
 Small Business
 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets
 Group Information
 Online
 Economics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home > Personal Finances > Mortgages & Remortgages >
 Jargon Buster 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current Account Mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flexible Choice Mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fixed Rate Mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discounted Variable Rate Mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Remortgage Offers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Variable CAT Mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity Release Loan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy to Let Mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Specialist Mortgage Products 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage Loanguard 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal Finances
 Mortgage Jargon Buster
 
A B C D E F G H I J
 K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
 
 
 Accident, Sickness and Unemployment cover 
 Cover provided by Mortgage Loanguard
 which pays your monthly mortgage payment for up to 12 months if you become ill, unemployed
 or have an accident. 
 
 
 Agreement in principle 
 An indication of the likely outcome of a loan application. This is not a formal
 offer but includes a credit check with a credit reference agency and an assessment of your
 ability to repay the loan amount requested. Once you have been given an agreement in
 principle we would make further checks to validate the information you have provided and
 check that the house you have chosen is suitable for us to lend against. At that stage we
 would then offer you a formal offer of
 loan. 
 
 
 Arrangement
 Fees 
 Charged to arrange a loan on certain products. Usually applied to loans where a
 special interest rate applies e.g. fixed or capped rates. 
 
 
 APR 
 Annual
 percentage rate of the total charge for credit: this is the standard way (laid down by the
 Consumer Credit Act 1974) of working out the true interest rate. By law, the APR has to be
 shown by all lenders alongside their quoted interest rates for each mortgage term, to
 enable potential borrowers to make comparisons between offers made by different lenders. 
 
 
 Buy To Let 
 A
 mortgage used to buy property which is to be used solely for the purposes of renting out
 to a third party. 
 
 
 Capped Rate Mortgage 
 A loan
 where a maximum rate of interest is set at the start of the mortgage. During the capped
 rate period the interest rate can fall below the capped rate but will never rise above it.
 
 
 
 Capital Repayment 
 There
 are 2 ways of repaying a mortgage - capital repayment or interest only. With a capital
 repayment mortgage, the capital and interest elements of the loan are paid off with each
 monthly instalment so that the balance reduces over time. At the end of the mortgage term
 the balance will be nil. 
 
 
 Capital &
 Interest 
 Another
 term for capital repayment 
 
 
 CAT Mortgage
 (Charges Access Terms) 
 A
 mortgage that complies with specific guidelines laid down by the government in terms of
 the charges applied, the flexibility of the mortgage and the terms applicable to it. 
 
 
 Conveyancing 
 The
 legal process involved when buying or selling property. 
 
 
 Daily interest 
 If
 interest is calculated daily then any payments made to your mortgage that reduce the
 balance immediately reduce the amount of interest you pay. If you have a mortgage which
 calculates interest monthly or annually you will pay more interest over the term of your
 mortgage than you would with daily interest. All Royal Bank mortgages calculate interest
 daily. 
 
 
 Decision in
 principle 
 See Agreement in principle 
 
 
 Decreasing Term
 Assurance 
 A life
 assurance policy should repay your mortgage if you die during the term. The amount repaid
 on this policy reduces over time as the balance of your mortgage reduces. 
 
 
 Deposit 
 Savings
 used as a down-payment on a house 
 
 
 Discount Rate 
 This
 interest rate is discounted from the published bank standard variable rate, or 100%
 standard variable rate if applicable, for an agreed period from the start of the mortgage. 
 
 
 Early Repayment/ Switching Charge 
 A
 charge payable of some mortgages to cover administration costs in the event of a loan
 being repaid before the due date. 
 
 
 Endowment Assurance 
 A
 life assurance savings scheme that pays out a lump sum at the end of an agreed period. If
 the Endowment is linked to an interest only mortgage, the lump sum from the endowment
 policy is designed to pay off the outstanding loan at the end of the mortgage term. 
 
 
 Endowment Mortgage 
 This is
 a type of interest only mortgage. Only interest is paid throughout the term so the balance
 never changes. The mortgage is designed to be repaid at the end of the term with the
 proceeds of an endowment policy. 
 
 
 Equity 
 The
 value of your home minus any outstanding loan. 
 
 
 Equity Release 
 A
 secured loan to release equity in your house for any purpose. 
 
 
 First Time Buyer 
 A
 customer taking out their first mortgage. 
 
 
 Fixed Rate 
 A
 mortgage rate where the interest rate is agreed at the outset and will not change during
 the term of the fixed rate, typically 3 or 5 years. 
 
 
 Freehold 
 A term
 which means that you own the property and the land it is situated on. 
 
 
 Interest Charges 
 The
 charges that banks make on a loan, calculated as a percentage of the amount borrowed 
 
 
 Interest Only 
 There
 are 2 types of mortgage, interest only or capital repayment. With an interest only
 mortgage the balance of the mortgage stays the same throughout the mortgage term. Interest
 and a premium to an investment vehicle are paid monthly. At the end of the term, the
 proceeds from the investment vehicle are intended to repay the mortgage. The amount will
 depend on the performance of the investment vehicle. If you choose an interest only
 mortgage you will be responsible for ensuring that you have sufficient funds available to
 repay your mortgage at the end of the term. 
 
 
 Individual Savings
 Account (ISA) Mortgage 
 An
 interest only mortgage linked to an Individual Savings Account fund, which is designed to
 pay off the loan at the end of the period. 
 
 
 Leasehold 
 A
 system used mainly in England where you would own the property for a set period before
 handing back ownership to the freeholder. 
 
 
 Legal Fees 
 The
 fees charged by a solicitor or other qualified individual to carry out the legal work
 associated with buying a house. 
 
 
 Level Term Assurance 
 A life
 assurance policy which will repay your mortgage if you die during the term. The amount
 that will be repaid is set as the balance of your mortgage at the start of your loan and
 doesn't change during the term of your mortgage. 
 
 
 Loanguard 
 See Mortgage Loanguard 
 
 
 Loan to Value (LTV) 
 Loan to
 Value (LTV) refers to the amount of the mortgage compared to the value of the house (or
 purchase price or lower) you are considering buying. For example, a £40,000 mortgage on a
 house worth £50,000 would have an LTV of 80%. 
 
 
 Maximum Advance Premium 
 The
 Maximum Advance Premium (MAP) is a charge due on a mortgage with an LTV greater than 90%.
 The premium will be charged on the amount of the loan above 75% LTV. The scale charges
 are: 
 
 
 % LTV 
 MAP Rate 
 
 
 90.01% - 95%
 95.01% - 100% 
 8.95%
 12.00% 
 
 
 MAP
 example: 
 Based on a mortgage of £50,000 on a property valued at £55,000. The LTV is 90.9% of
 valuation so the MAP rate from the table above is 8.95%.
75% of the valuation of
 £55,000 is £41,250 which is then deducted from the loan amount of £50,000 i.e. £8,750.
 This multiplied by the Map rate of 8.95% gives a MAP charge of £783.13.
 
Note: MAP will be charged (where applicable above) where customers move house and keep
 the existing mortgage terms. 
 
 
 MIRAS 
 This
 was a government scheme discontinued in April 2001 that allowed you to claim tax relief on
 the interest you paid on your mortgage. 
 
 
 Mortgage 
 A loan
 made against the security of a property. 
 
 
 Mortgage Loanguard 
 A
 payment protection policy that covers your monthly mortgage payments in the event of
 accident, sickness or unemployment. 
 
 
 Mortgage Rate 
 The
 standard variable interest rate quoted by all mortgage lenders which normally varies with
 the Bank of England base rate. All discounted rates are based on this Mortgage Rate. There
 are 2 tiers of Mortgage Rate, standard variable and 100% standard variable. 
 
 
 Negative Equity 
 Where a
 mortgage is greater than the value of the property 
 
 
 Offer of Loan 
 A
 formal document approving the mortgage you have requested and detailing the terms and
 conditions that will apply. 
 
 
 Payment Break 
 An
 option on our Flexible Choice Mortgage that
 allows you to stop making mortgage payments for up to 6 months. 
 
 
 Pension
 Plan Mortgage 
 A type of interest only mortgage where the loan is designed to be repaid by a
 lump sum from a pension plan when you retire. 
 
 
 Re-mortgaging 
 Moving
 mortgage from one lender to another without moving house. 
 
 
 Reserve Facility 
 An
 option available on our Flexible Choice Mortgage
 that allows you to release equity in your home when you want to. As a maximum amount is
 agreed at the same time as your mortgage, no further application forms or approval are
 required before you access the funds. 
 
 
 Right-to-Buy Mortgages 
 Mortgages
 for public sector tenants who qualify to buy their home under the Government's
 Right-to-Buy scheme. Most of our mortgages are available under this scheme. 
 
 
 Sealing Fee 
 A
 charge made for the administration work involved in closing your mortgage account. 
 
 
 Self build scheme 
 A
 package for customers who are looking to build their new home themselves. 
 
 
 Stamp Duty 
 A
 charge levied by the government on house purchases over £60,000. 
 
 
 Standard Variable
 Mortgage Rate 
 See Mortgage Rate 
 
 
 Survey 
 A more
 thorough and costly evaluation of the condition and value of a property. Paid for by the
 customer. 
 
 
 Term 
 The
 length of time you take to repay your mortgage. 
 
 
 Total Amount Payable 
 The
 Consumer Credit Act requires the Bank to show the 'total amount payable' on quotations for
 mortgages. The 'total amount payable' is the total of the mortgage repayments or, in the
 case of an interest only mortgage, the interest payable over the term plus the final
 capital repayment. It includes any Bank fees, likely valuation fees, an estimate of likely
 legal costs and life assurance premiums. 
 
 
 Typical example 
 An
 example of the repayments made by a typical customer for every mortgage type that the Bank
 provides. 
 
 
 Unemployment Cover 
 One of
 the options available with Mortgage Loanguard to
 protect against redundancy. If you are made unemployed, it will pay your monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months. 
 
 
 Valuation 
 An
 independent assessment of the value of a property carried out by an approved surveyor.
 Paid for by the customer, the valuation is used by the bank to decide how much they are
 prepared to lend. Many customers also choose to arrange a more comprehensive survey for their own purposes before they
 decide to buy a property. 
 
 
 Variable Rate 
 This
 rate can go down as well as up during the course of your mortgage and is normally based on
 The Bank of England Base Rate. 
 
 
 
These services are for the attention of UK residents only and are only
 available in the UK. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please
 see Important Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
