
 
HSBC - Stakeholder Pensions
 
"100%">
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 Stakeholder 
 Pensions 
 
 
 
 I 
 am employed 
 
 
 
 My 
 employer's 
 obligations 
 
 
 
 Setting 
 up a
 Stakeholder
 Pension online 
 
 
 
 Investment 
 choice calculator 
 
 
 
 Apply 
 for a Stakeholder Pension online 
 
 
 
 Jargon 
 buster 
 
 
 
 Important 
 notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Welcome to Stakeholder Pensions for Employees
 
What pension options 
 do I have? 
 You have several options when setting up a pension scheme 
 for yourself. They are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal 
 pension plan 
 A personal 
 pension plan lets you set aside money on either a regular 
 or one-off basis. All contributions you make are paid net of basic 
 rate income 
 tax. If you are a higher rate taxpayer you can claim 
 additional tax relief from your local tax office. The money is invested 
 in the pension fund and grows in a tax efficient environment. On 
 reaching retirement, you can normally take part of the fund (up 
 to 25%) as a tax-free lump sum. The remainder is then used to provide 
 an income, which will be subject to income 
 tax. You can usually have access to your pension fund 
 from the age of 50. You must take the benefits by your 75th birthday. 
 
 
In order to take out a personal pension plan you must: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Be resident and be ordinarily 
 resident in the UK 
 
- Have a National Insurance number 
 
 
 
 
 You can pay in up to £3,600 gross 
 per year, regardless of your earnings. It may be possible to pay more. 
 This depends on your age and earnings, as indicated in the table below. 
 If you do want to pay more than £3,600 gross 
 per year we will require proof of your earnings. 
 
 
 
 Inland Revenue limits on contributions 
 into a personal pension per tax year 
 
 
 
 Age 35* and under
 
 Age 36* to 45 
 
 Age 46* to 50 
 
 Age 51* to 55 
 
 Age 56* to 60 
 
 Age 61* to 74
 
 
 17.5% 
 of net 
 relevant earnings
 up to £91,800** 
 20% of net relevant earnings 
 up to £91,800** 
 25% of net relevant earnings 
 up to £91,800** 
 30% of net relevant earnings
 up to £91,800** 
 35% of net relevant earnings
 up to £91,800** 
 40% of net relevant earnings
 up to £91,800** 
 
 
 
 *Age at beginning of the tax year. 
 **The earnings cap for 2000/2001 tax year. This may change in the 
 future. 
 The tax year begins 6 April and ends 5 April. 
 
Self-invested personal pension 
 (SIPP) 
 This is similar to a personal 
 pension plan. The main differences are that the associated 
 charges with a SIPP 
 may be higher. The minimum investment in a SIPP 
 is usually higher and a SIPP offers 
 greater investment freedom. For example, it is possible to buy individual 
 stocks and shares. 
 
If you would like to find out more information about 
 personal 
 pension plans and self- 
 invested personal pensions, please contact an HSBC Bank 
 branch and speak to the Financial 
 Planning Manager who will be able to help you. Click 
 here to find your nearest branch. Please 
 note these products may incur higher charges than a Stakeholder 
 Pension. 
 
Stakeholder Pension 
 
 This is similar to a personal 
 pension plan except it has to meet certain strict government 
 standards, which are intended to benefit you. These are: 
 
 
 
 
 
- The only charge you will pay is an annual 
 management charge.
 
- The maximum annual 
 management charge will be 1% of the pension fund 
 each year.
 
- Contributions from as little as £20 gross 
 can be made, whether this is a regular or single premium. 
 
 
- You will be able to stop and start contributions 
 whenever it suits you without charge.
 
- You will be able to transfer your pension 
 fund without charge.
 
- Employees who are members of occupational 
 pension schemes can contribute up to £3,600 per 
 year into a Stakeholder 
 Pension provided they earn less than £30,000 
 per year. Controlling 
 directors and individuals earning more than £30,000 
 per year cannot.
 
- Contributions to a Stakeholder Pension can 
 be made by variable Direct Debit. 
 
 
- You can pay into a Stakeholder Pension 
 for your children and spouse. There is no minimum age or 
 earnings level for someone to start a Stakeholder Pension. 
 In effect you could pay up to £3,600 gross 
 each year into a Stakeholder Pension for someone until their 
 75th birthday. If they are a member of an occupational 
 pension scheme earning more than £30,000 per 
 year or are a controlling 
 director they will not be eligible for a Stakeholder 
 Pension. If you wish to apply for a Stakeholder Pension 
 for someone over the age of 18, you can do this via our 
 website. However, you will need to complete a paper Direct 
 Debit, which we will send to you. If you wish to set up 
 a Stakeholder Pension for someone below the age of 18 you 
 will need to contact one of our Financial 
 Planning Managers at an HSBC Bank branch. Click 
 here to go to our branch directory.
 
 
 
 
 Use our Employer 
 obligation questionnaire to see if you should be offered a Stakeholder 
 Pension scheme at your place of work. 
 
	If you are interested in Stakeholder Pensions, 
 you have the following options:
 
 
 
 
 
- If you are unsure whether you should take 
 out a Stakeholder Pension, 
 Decision Trees may help you make an informed decision. 
 These have been designed to help you decide whether a Stakeholder 
 Pension is the right product to suit your personal retirement 
 planning needs.
 
- You can create an estimate of potential 
 benefits from a Stakeholder Pension, based on the contributions 
 you would make, your age and other factors, using our pension 
 calculator.
 
 
 
 
 If you have already used the Decision Trees, and 
 are familiar with what a Stakeholder Pension could offer you, you 
 can apply for a Stakeholder Pension with us by clicking 
 here. 
 
Contracting out of the State Earnings Related 
 Pension Scheme (SERPS) 
 Your State 
 Earnings Related Pension Scheme is funded by part of 
 your National Insurance contributions and part of the National Insurance 
 contributions your employer pays for you. You can chose to contract 
 out of SERPS 
 using a personal 
 pension plan or a Stakeholder Pension. 
 
This means that while you are contracted out you give 
 up your right to a SERPS 
 pension, for that period only. But in return, this money is redirected 
 from the Department of Social Security (DSS) to your personal 
 pension plan or Stakeholder Pension and invested in your 
 chosen investment 
 fund(s). You may only contract out with one pension 
 provider in any one tax year. 
 
While you are contracted out, part of your National 
 Insurance contribution is paid by the DSS to the pension 
 provider you have chosen to contract out with. 
 
If you are considering contracting out of SERPS, 
 our company actuaries have calculated some information that may 
 help you make an informed decision. The figures below are only a 
 guide. 
 
People most suited to contracting out of SERPS 
 are those: 
 
 
 
 
 
- With net 
 relevant earnings over £10,000 per annum who 
 are likely to remain over this figure for the next three 
 years.
 
 
 
- Who are prepared to invest in funds that 
 take greater risks, for example those that invest in the 
 stock market, to make higher returns. While higher risk 
 funds may be more likely to produce larger returns they 
 may also make larger losses.
 
 
 
- Who are prepared to remain contracted out 
 for at least three years.
 
 
 
- Aged below 51 for a male and 44 for 
 females
 
 
 
 
 If you believe it would be in your best interest 
 to contract out of SERPS 
 and wish to apply for this you may do so. Please contact the Financial 
 Planning Manager at your local branch. Click 
 here to find your nearest branch. 
 
Contracting back into SERPS 
 You may contract back into SERPS 
 at any time. If you are currently contracted out with us and are 
 considering contracting back into SERPS, 
 our company actuaries have calculated that if you are aged 53 or 
 above for a male and 47 or above for females, you should consider 
 contracting back into SERPS. Please 
 note that these ages are only a guide. 
 
If you would like to contract back into SERPS 
 or if you are unsure how you wish to proceed you should contact 
 the Financial 
 Planning Manager at an HSBC Bank branch. Click 
 here to find your nearest branch. 
 
The information above has been calculated by HSBC 
 Life (UK) Limited company actuaries taking into account the current 
 charges on our Stakeholder Pension contract. The figures should 
 not be used when considering contracting out or in with any other 
 product or product provider. 
	
Tell me more about Stakeholder Pensions
 Reasons for introduction 
 The Government announced its intention to reform pensions from April 
 2001. A full copy of the Government's document (published on 25 
 May 2000) can be viewed by visiting the Department of Social Security 
 website, www.dss.gov.uk. 
 This document outlines the key proposals to change the face of pensions. 
 
 
A new simple, flexible and low cost pension will be 
 introduced known as a Stakeholder Pension. The low charges and product 
 simplicity should make retirement planning more attractive and easier 
 for many people. Individuals will normally be able to take the pension 
 benefits built up from a Stakeholder Pension in addition to the 
 State pension and other pension benefits. 
 
 
Regulation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- The Occupational 
 Pensions Regulatory Authority (OPRA) will regulate 
 the operation of all schemes and maintain a register of 
 them. Employers responsible for offering a Stakeholder Pension 
 will also need to ensure the Stakeholder Pension they have 
 designated for their employees is continually registered 
 with OPRA.
 
- The Financial Services 
 Authority (FSA) will regulate the marketing of schemes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 What if I have other pension 
 benefits? 
 You may already have one or more existing pensions. These may be from 
 previous employers or pensions you have set up yourself. If you are 
 still paying into one or more of these pensions, this will have an 
 effect on the amount you can pay into a Stakeholder Pension. The maximum 
 amount you can pay, called the contribution 
 limit includes all pensions, not just contributions to one 
 particular pension. You will need to ensure that the total of all 
 pension contributions does not exceed the contribution 
 limits.
 
You may wish to seek advice from a Financial 
 Adviser on what options you have.
 
Transferring Stakeholder Pension 
 benefits 
 One of the benefits of a Stakeholder Pension is that you will be 
 able to move funds from one Stakeholder Pension to another, without 
 additional charge. This gives you complete flexibility to move your 
 existing Stakeholder Pension funds when it suits you. It is possible 
 to move your existing pension arrangements to a new Stakeholder 
 Pension with us. Please note that there 
 may be a charge for advice relating to transfers.
 
If you are considering moving your existing pension 
 arrangements to a Stakeholder Pension with us you will need to contact 
 the Financial 
 Planning Manager at an HSBC Bank branch. Click 
 here to find your nearest branch of HSBC.
 
What Stakeholder Pension obligations 
 does my employer have? 
 If your employer is obliged to offer you access to a Stakeholder 
 Pension, they will have to follow these guidelines. 
 
Consultation 
 Employers must consult with their employees (or their representatives) 
 when deciding on who will provide their Stakeholder Pension scheme. 
 However, the final decision rests with the employer. 
 
Contributions 
 Your employer is not obliged to make any contributions to the Stakeholder 
 Pension, although they may choose to do so if they are obliged to 
 provide access under the new legislation. 
 
What they must do is: 
 
 
 
 
 
- Offer you access to a Stakeholder Pension 
 scheme if they fall within the regulations.
 
- Deduct your contributions directly from 
 your salary if you require this facility.
 
- Pass your contributions onto the designated 
 Stakeholder Pension 
 provider.
 
 
 
 
 Your employer must pass any contributions taken 
 from your salary to your Stakeholder Pension scheme provider no later 
 than the 19th day of the month following the month they were taken 
 from you. If you prefer, you can choose to pay your own contributions 
 from your bank or building society account by Direct Debit to the 
 Stakeholder Pension provider. 
 
Apply for our Stakeholder Pension 
 
 You can apply for a Stakeholder Pension with HSBC over the internet. 
 However, we would recommend that you make use of the Decision 
 Trees in advance of making a decision.
 
Use our Employer 
 obligation questionnaire to see if you should be offered a Stakeholder 
 Pension at your place of work.
 
We recommend that you read our important notes.
 
HSBC Bank plc is regulated by the Personal Investment Authority and only advises on its own life assurance, pensions and investment funds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
