
Barclays plc. Investor Relations. Shareholder Information: Frequently Asked
Questions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- When does Barclays report financial
 results?
 
- Where can I obtain a copy of the
 Report and Accounts?
 
- What is Barclays Sharestore?
 
- How do I join Barclays Sharestore?
 
- What do I do if I want to sell my
 shares held in Barclays Sharestore or buy more?
 
- How much will it cost me to buy or
 sell shares through Barclays Sharestore?
 
- What is Barclays e-view?
 
- Does Barclays pay a cash dividend?
 
- When was your most recent dividend
 paid?
 
- Can I take my dividend in shares?
 
- Can I receive my cash dividend
 directly into my bank or building society account?
 
- When do I receive my dividend tax
 voucher?
 
- What do I do if I need a duplicate
 tax voucher?
 
- As an ex-Woolwich shareholder what
 are the tax implications following the acquisition by Barclays?
 
- Does Barclays offer a direct
 purchase programme?
 
- How do I confirm the number of
 shares that I hold?
 
- What should I do if I lose my
 share certificate?
 
- What happens if a shareholder
 dies?
 
- What do I need to do if I wish to
 transfer my Barclays shares to someone else?
 
- How do I sell my Barclays shares
 or buy more?
 
- What is an Individual Savings
 Account (ISA) and how can I invest in one?
 
- Who do I notify if I have changed
 my name or address?
 
- Should I attend the Annual General
 Meeting?
 
- Where is Barclays PLC stock
 traded?
 
- What is the Barclays PLC ticker
 symbol?
 
- What is the Barclays PLC Cusip
 number?
 
- When was Barclays incorporated?
 
 
 
When does Barclays report
 financial results?
 
The full year and interim results are announced in
 February and August respectively. The 2001 Results were announced on 14th February 2002.
 
 
Where can I obtain a copy of the
 Report and Accounts?
 
The reports can be accessed on this web site. A summary
 document will be sent out to shareholders in March each year. Extra copies may be
 ordered by e-mail from shareholder.enquiries@barclays.co.uk
 or by phoning 0117 935 3848. 
 
 
What is Barclays Sharestore?
 
Barclays Sharestore allows shareholders to hold their
 Barclays shares electronically in uncertificated form, within a nominee account
 administered by our registrars.
 
The benefits of holding shares in this way can be
 summarised as follows: 
 
You will receive an annual statement setting out details
 of how many Barclays shares you own and you need no longer worry about losing your share
 certificates.
 
When you sell your shares in Barclays Sharestore you
 will receive your money more quickly and will receive a £2 discount on the
 commission that you are charged.
 
 
How do I join Barclays Sharestore?
 
You should contact our Registrar on 0870 702 0196 and ask
 for a Barclays Sharestore Deposit Form and a set of terms and conditions.
 
 
What do I do if I want to sell my
 shares held in Barclays Sharestore or buy more?
 
If you decide to sell some or all of the shares you hold
 in Barclays Sharestore or buy more, you should phone Barclays Stockbrokers on 0845 604
 0077. They will ask you for your Shareholder Reference Number (SRN) which will appear on
 your Statement of Entitlement and will take your instructions to buy or sell over the
 telephone. 
 
If you hold shares in Barclays Sharestore you can only
 buy or sell them through Barclays Stockbrokers.
 
 
How much will it cost me to buy or
 sell shares through Barclays Sharestore?
 
Commission is charged as follows:
 
 
 First £5,000 
 1.5 % (minimum charge of £17.50) 
 
 
 Next £10,000 
 0.85% 
 
 
 Thereafter 
 0.50% 
 
 
 
Stamp Duty reserve tax currently at 0.5% is payable on
 all share purchases. If you hold your shares in Barclays Sharestore you will receive a £2
 discount on the commission charged on any sale of Barclays shares.
 
 
What is Barclays e-view?
 
Barclays e-view is a service offered by our Registrar,
 Computershare Investor Services PLC. Barclays e-view allows shareholders to receive their
 Annual Report or Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, The Notice of Annual
 General Meeting and other shareholder documents electronically. With this service
 shareholders can download only those pages of shareholder documents that are of particular
 interest. Shareholders can also appoint a proxy online, that is someone to vote for you at
 shareholder meetings, and to check your shareholding at any time, day or night.
 
 
Does Barclays pay a cash
 dividend?
 
Yes, Barclays PLC has paid dividends on its ordinary
 shares every year without interruption since its incorporation in 1896.
 
Barclays usually pay dividends twice yearly in May and
 October. Details of the amount of dividend to be paid appear in the half year and year end
 Financial Results which are announced in August and February each financial year and in
 the Interim Report advertisement and Annual Report and Annual Review and Summary Financial
 Statement sent to all shareholders in March.
 
 
When was your most recent
 dividend paid?
 
The second interim dividend for the year ended 31st December
 2001 of 43.5p was paid on 26th April 2002 in respect of shares registered in the books of
 the Company at the close of business on 1st March 2001. 
 
 
Can I take my dividend in shares?
 
Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in
 Barclays PLC shares by participating in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The plan is
 available to all shareholders provided that they do not live in or are subject to the
 jurisdiction of any country where their participation in the plan would require Barclays
 or the plan administrator to take action to comply with local government or regulatory
 procedures or any similar formalities. Any shareholder wishing to obtain details of the
 plan and a mandate form should contact The Plan Administrator to Barclays, PO Box 82, The
 Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH. Those wishing to participate for the first
 time in the plan should send their completed mandate form to the plan administrator before
 10th September 2002 for it to be applicable to the payment of the interim dividend on
 1st October 2002. Existing participants should take no action unless they wish to alter
 their current mandate instructions in which case they should contact the plan
 administrator. 
 
 
Can I receive my cash dividend
 directly into my bank or building society account?
 
Yes, you should complete a Dividend Payment Instruction
 Form and return it to the Registrar. Click here to download the form.
 
 
When do I receive my dividend tax
 voucher?
 
Barclays issue a consolidated tax voucher for the
 financial year in late October to those shareholders who have their dividends mandated to
 their bank or building society account. Shareholders who have a dividend cheque sent to
 their registered address receive a voucher with each payment.
 
 
What do I do if I need a
 duplicate tax voucher?
 
You should contact the Registrar who will issue a
 duplicate. There is an administration charge of £5.87 for each voucher requested. Cheques
 should be made payable to Computershare Investor Services PLC and should be mailed with
 your request.
 
 
As an
 ex-Woolwich shareholder what are the tax implications following the acquisition by
 Barclays?
 
The Inland Revenue confirmed to us that UK tax paying
 shareholders who held their Woolwich shares as a capital asset would obtain
 "roll-over" relief, and therefore have no UK capital gains tax or corporation
 tax liability, to the extent that they received Barclays shares under the Offer. To the
 extent that shareholders received cash under the Offer, they may have a UK tax liability
 depending upon their individual circumstances. UK shareholders who received their Woolwich
 shares on the conversion of the Woolwich in July 1997 will not have a tax base cost in
 respect of such shares. Such shareholders receiving new Barclays shares will have a nil
 base cost in such shares, and any cash received under the Offer will be a capital gain. 
 
 
Does Barclays offer a direct
 purchase programme?
 
No.
 
 
How do I confirm the number of
 shares that I hold?
 
You can access your personal share information on this
 website by entering your Shareholder Reference Number (SRN). This number can be found on
 your share certificates or Statement of Entitlement (for those in Barclays Sharestore).
 Alternatively you can phone the Registrar on 0870 702 0196.
 
 
What should I do if I lose my
 share certificate?
 
You should contact the Registrar and ask for a
 replacement. You will be sent a form of indemnity to sign and return. A new certificate
 will then be sent to you. Please note that there is a small charge for this service. If
 you hold your shares through a CREST account, you will not hold any share certificate(s).
 Instead, you should receive a statement indicating the number of shares you hold from the
 broker or financial institution through whom you bought the shares. If you lose this,
 replacement statements can be issued as required.
 
 
What happens if a shareholder
 dies?
 
Inform the Registrar by sending a certified copy of the
 death certificate together with the original Grant of Probate (or a sealed office copy) or
 the Letters of Administration. The name of the deceased's personal representative(s) will
 be substituted on the share register while the estate is finalised.
 
There are options for the person entitled to the shares
 to be registered as the holder of them or for the shares to be transferred or sold. Please
 contact the Registrar who will provide further details.
 
 
What do I need to do if I wish
 to transfer my Barclays shares to someone else?
 
You should complete a Gift Transfer Form and send it with
 your share certificate to the Registrar. Click here to download the form.
 
 
How do I sell my Barclays shares
 or buy more?
 
Barclays, via Barclays Stockbrokers
 (0845 604 0077 from inside the UK, +44 141 352 3000 otherwise). 
 ShareDeal - this service can be used for the occasional transaction or
 for frequent traders who prefer to hold their own certificates. The key features of
 ShareDeal are listed below.
 
- Register and deal in just one phone call
 
- Fast telephone dealing when you have the certificates to
 hand
 
- One-off deals or unlimited transactions 
 
 
For more details on the services or to join, please
 contact Barclays Stockbrokers.
 
 
What is an Individual Savings
 Account (ISA) and how can I invest in one?
 
ISAs have replaced replaced PEPs and TESSAs. Investments
 held in an ISA are free from UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax on any profits when you
 sell your shares. You can open an ISA if you are aged 18 or over, and are ordinarily
 resident in the UK.
 
The Barclays PLC Corporate Maxi ISA from Barclays
 Stockbrokers allows you to invest in a range of qualifying shares, Gilts, bonds, unit
 trusts and cash.
 The annual allowance is £7,000. 
 
To receive an a information pack on the Barclays PLC
 Corporate Maxi ISA please call Barclays Stockbrokers on 0845 601 5000. Lines are open to
 6.00pm on weekdays and 9.00pm to 1.00pm on Saturday.
 
Barclays Stockbrokers is a member of the LSE and regulated by the SFA.
 
Calls are charged at local rates: you can only use this
 number if you are calling from the UK. For your security, all calls are recorded and
 randomly monitored.
 
 
 
Who do I notify if I have
 changed my name or address?
 
You should write to the Registrar. If you move house,
 then you should give details of both your old and new address. If your name has changed,
 then you should enclose a copy of your marriage certificate in the case of marriage or a
 copy of the legal document confirming your name change in other cases together with your
 share certificate(s) for amendment. If you are a sponsored member and hold your shares
 within a CREST account then you should notify your sponsor of any amendments.
 
 
Should I attend the Annual
 General Meeting?
 
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is your opportunity to
 become directly involved in company decisions. You will be asked to vote on important
 matters and may, if you wish, ask questions relating to those matters. The AGM is also an
 opportunity to meet our senior executives and other shareholders.
 
 
Where is Barclays PLC stock
 traded?
 
The London, New York and Tokyo stock exchanges.
 
 
What is the Barclays PLC ticker
 symbol?
 
BARC.
 
 
What is the Barclays PLC Cusip
 number?
 
 
 ADR unit, Barclays plc 
 06738E204 
 
 
 ADR unit, series C 
 06738C505 
 
 
 ADR unit, series D 
 06738C802 
 
 
 
 
When was Barclays incorporated?
 
1896. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
