CVS INFO
Description of the template or HTML page
Author : $Author: vastrom $
Version : $Revision: 1.13 $
Date : $Date: 2001/01/24 13:19:28 $
-->
 
Sainsbury's Bank - Credit Card - Terms and Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 apply now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 card benefits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 any questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 making the
most of it 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 get in touch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 terms & conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit 
 Act 1974.
 1.INTRODUCTION
 In this Agreement 'we', 'us' and 'our' means Sainsbury's Bank and any 
 company, firm or person which we transfer any or all of our rights and 
 duties to under this Agreement and 'you' means the person signing this 
 Agreement. Specific meanings for words which begin with a capital letter 
 are set out in condition 16. If you need to report lost or stolen cards 
 telephone 0845 300 0344 or write to Card 
 Services, Pitreavie Business Park, Dunfermline, Fife KY99 4BS. 
 If you want to contact us about anything else to do with this Agreement 
 write to us at the above address or telephone 08701 542 543. 
 
 
2.LIMITS
 Your Cash Limit is half your Credit Limit. We will review your Credit 
 Limit from time to time and tell you what it is.
 
3.CREDIT CHARGES
 3.1 We will charge interest at the following rates: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Special 
 Promotion 
 
 
 Cash 
 Advances
 (and related Charges) 
 
 
 Purchases
 
 (related Charges and all other Charges) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Per month 
 
 Per month 
 
 Per month 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Special Promotion rate for the Special Promotion 
 Period 
 0.480% 
 5.9%p.a.* 
 0.480% 
 5.9%p.a.* 
 0.480% 
 5.9%p.a.* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Standard rate 
 N/A 
 N/A 
 1.24% 
 17.7%APR 
 1.24% 
 15.9%APR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*p.a. rates do not include any cash handling fees or 
 charges
 
3.2 We charge a handling fee of 1.5% of the amount of each Cash Advance 
 (minimum fee £1.50 ) 
 
 3.3 In calculating the APRs we have not taken into account any changes 
 which we may make to the interest rates, the handling [or annual] fee 
 or any other charges which we may introduce or vary at any time by giving 
 you notice under condition 11. The APRs are calculated on the basis of 
 a Credit Limit of £1,000. At the end of any Special Promotion Period, 
 the standard rate will apply. 
 
 4.REPAYMENTS AND INTEREST CHARGING 
 
 4.1 Each month you must pay at least the minimum payment shown on your 
 statement so that it reaches your Account on or before the Payment Date, 
 which is 19 days after your statement date. The minimum payment will be 
 the greater of £5, or 3% of the Statement Balance or the full Statement 
 Balance, if the Statement Balance is less than £ 5. 
 
 4.2 If the full Statement Balance shown on your monthly statement reaches 
 your Account on or before the Payment Date, no interest will be charged 
 on that Statement Balance after the date of that statement. 
 
If the full Statement Balance shown on your current monthly statement 
 reaches your Account on or before the Payment Date AND the full Statement 
 Balance which was outstanding on the immediately preceding monthly statement 
 reached your Account on or before the Payment Date shown on that statement, 
 we will not charge interest on any Transactions and Charges shown on your 
 current statement. 
 
In all other cases, interest will be charged on a daily basis on the 
 Account Balance on all Balance Transfers, Cheques and Charges from the 
 Posting Date, and on all Cash Advances and Purchases (other than Cheques) 
 from the Transaction Date, up to and including the next statement date 
 when interest will be added to your Account until you have paid the amount 
 you owe us in full. 
 
 4.3 Any payment to us will only take effect and be treated as having 
 reached your Account when we can use it to reduce the Account Balance. 
 We will apply payments against the Account Balance in the following order: 
 
(a) first against the amount you owe us for Charges; and then against
 (b) Cash Advances and Purchases (in that order) which have been charged 
 to the Account and shown in a statement; followed by
 (c) Cash Advances and Purchases (in that order) which have been charged 
 to the Account but have not yet been shown in a statement. 
 
For these purposes, Special Promotions will be treated as:
 
 (i) Cash Advances, if the interest rate which applied to any Special Promotion 
 during the Special Promotion Period was the same as the rate applicable 
 to Cash Advances; and
 (ii) Purchases, if the interest rate which applied to any Special Promotion 
 during the Special Promotion Period was the same as the rate applicable 
 to Purchases (even if the same rate applied to Cash Advances). 
 
 
4.4 We may at our discretion let you pay less than the minimum payment 
 explained in condition 4.1 or make no minimum payment for a particular 
 month or period. If we do this, we will continue to charge interest and 
 add it to the Account as normal. 
 
4.5 You must pay us straight away: 
 
 
- the amount by which the Account Balance is over the Credit Limit; 
 
- the amount of any Transaction made in breach of this Agreement; and 
 
- the amount of any late payment. 
 
 
4.6 Depending on any legal requirements, we can ask for all amounts unpaid 
 under this Agreement to be paid in full if you:
 (a) act fraudulently, frequently break this Agreement or break an important 
 term; 
 (b) become bankrupt, or an application for an interim order is made against 
 you under section 253 of the Insolvency Act 1986; or
 (c) die.
 
 
5.USING THE CARD AND CHEQUES
 
5.1 You must sign your Card as soon as you receive it and follow any 
 reasonable instructions that we give about using Cards and keeping them 
 safe. 
 
5.2 You and any Additional Cardholder can use Cards and you can use Cheques 
 up to the Credit Limit but the Cash Balance must not go over the Cash 
 Limit. When deciding whether you have gone over the Credit Limit or the 
 Cash Limit we take account of the amount of any Transaction we are aware 
 of but have not yet put on the Account. If we authorise a Transaction 
 which takes you over your Credit Limit you will still have to pay an over 
 limit fee as set out in the Tariff.
 
5.3 If you ask us to make a Balance Transfer, you will still have to 
 pay any amounts you owe to the lender before and, if necessary, after 
 we add the Balance Transfer to your Account.
 
5.4 We will convert all Transactions in foreign currency into sterling 
 using the exchange rate set by the Card Scheme and a conversion fee, set 
 out in the Tariff, on the amount of the Transaction. As rates change, 
 the exchange rate used may not be the same as the rate on the date when 
 the Transaction was made.
 
5.5 We do not always issue Cheques or give them to all cardholders. If 
 we send Cheques to you, you must not use them to pay off any amounts you 
 owe us or to make payments in foreign currencies.
 
5.6 We will replace the Card from time to time. A replacement Card will 
 either be the same as your existing Card or another Card that you then 
 qualify for and which is covered by this Agreement. 
 
5.7 Cards and Cheques belong to us. We can ask you and retailers (and 
 others) who have the Card for the purpose of a Transaction to return it 
 to us at any time.
 
5.8 After you have made a Purchase with a Card, we cannot stop payment 
 to the retailer or the charging of that Purchase to the Account. If you 
 dispute the Purchase, the retailer must be able to prove that you authorised 
 the Purchase to be charged to the Account. You can ask us to stop a Purchase 
 made by a Cheque as long as you do so before it has been processed by 
 us and the Cheque was not guaranteed.
 
 
6.STATEMENTS
 
We will normally send you a statement once a month. The statement will 
 show the payments you have made and all amounts we have added to your 
 Account since the last statement.
 
7.SECURITY
 
7.1 You must do all that you reasonably can to keep the Card and Cheques 
 safe and the PIN secret at all times. If the Card is a cheque guarantee 
 card, you must keep the Card separate from any Sainsbury's Bank cheques.
 
7.2 You must never allow anyone else to use your Card.
 
7.3 You must never write the PIN on the Card or on anything you usually 
 keep with it. You must make sure that any written record of your PIN is 
 unrecognisable.
 
7.4 You must only reveal the Card number to make a Transaction or to 
 tell us (or a card protection agency) about the loss or theft of the Card.
 
7.5 You can only give the PIN to an Additional Cardholder.
 
8.NOTICES
 
8.1 You must give us notice as soon as you can if:
 
(a) the Card or Cheques are lost or stolen or you think that they may 
 be misused, or that someone other than an Additional Cardholder may know 
 the PIN;
 
(b)your statement includes an item which you think is wrong; or
 
(c) you change your address, or you or an Additional Cardholder change 
 name.
 
You can contact us on the telephone number or at the address given in 
 condition 1. We may ask you to confirm in writing within seven days any 
 information, which you have not already given us in writing.
 
8.2 You must give us all the information you have about the loss, theft 
 or misuse of a Card or Cheques or the PIN, and any other related information 
 which we think will assist us. We may give the police any information 
 we think will be useful. If you find Cards and Cheques which you have 
 reported as lost, stolen or at risk of misuse, you must not use them. 
 You must cut them in half and return them to us immediately at the address 
 shown in condition 1.
 
9.LIMITS OF LIABILITY
 
9.1 You will not be responsible for any Transaction not authorised by 
 you or an Additional Cardholder if the Transaction is made using the Card 
 number when you are not present (eg. by post, telephone, internet). In 
 all other cases, you will be liable for up to £50 for any use of 
 the Card by someone other than you or an Additional Cardholder until you 
 give us notice under clause 8.1(a). If someone uses a Card and they got 
 it with your or an Additional Cardholder's permission, you will be liable 
 for all the Transactions which take place before you tell us that it may 
 be misused.
 
9.2 We will not be liable to you if we cannot carry out our responsibilities 
 under this Agreement as a result of anything that we cannot reasonably 
 control. This includes any machine failing to work and industrial disputes. 
 If we cannot produce or send a statement we will use your normal monthly 
 statement date to work out the Payment Date and interest you have to pay 
 on the Account.
 
10.REFUNDS AND CLAIMS
 
We will only credit your Account with a refund for a Transaction if the 
 retailer tells us to. You cannot use a claim you may have against a retailer 
 to make a claim against us or refuse to pay us, unless you have a legal 
 right to do so. You cannot transfer any rights against us to anyone else.
 
11.CHANGING THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT
 
11.1 We may change the terms of this Agreement at any time by telling 
 you about the change. We may make changes to take account of Special Promotions; 
 market conditions; changes in the cost of providing this service to you; 
 changes or anticipated changes in legal or other requirements affecting 
 us; any systems or product development or the introduction of new products 
 or services; or any other good reason.
 
We may also introduce a charge for any service provided under or in connection 
 with this Agreement.
 
11.2 We will tell you about any changes in one or more of the following 
 ways:
 
(a) advertising in the press;
 
(b) putting messages in your monthly statement; or
 
(c) sending you a separate written notice.
 
Changes will happen at least thirty days after we tell you about them, 
 apart from changes in the interest rate and changes which are clearly 
 to your advantage (such as changes for Special Promotions) which may apply 
 immediately. All notices and notice periods will follow the Consumer Credit 
 Act 1974.
 
12.LIMITING YOUR RIGHT TO USE THE CARD AND CHEQUES
 
12.1 If we have a good reason, we may (without warning):
 
(a) refuse to authorise a Transaction;
 
(b) cancel or suspend your right, or an Additional Cardholder 's right, 
 to use the Card or Cheques for any or all purposes; or
 
(c) refuse to replace any Card and Cheques.
 
This Agreement will continue even if we do any of these things.
 
12.2 We will not be liable:
 
(a) if we do not authorise a Transaction;
 
(b) if you or an Additional Cardholder cannot use the Card for a Transaction 
 or a Cheque; or
 
(c) for any loss or damage you or any Additional Cardholder suffer as 
 a result of the way you are told this.
 
12.3 You may not use your Card as payment for any illegal purchase.
 
13.ENDING THIS AGREEMENT
 
This Agreement will end if you or we have given written notice to the 
 other and you have returned all Cards and Cheques and made all payments 
 due under this Agreement. Unless there are exceptional circumstances we 
 will give you thirty days' notice before we end this Agreement. We will 
 not refund any annual fees when the Agreement ends.
 
14.ADDITIONAL CARDHOLDERS
 
14.1 14.1 You must make sure that any Additional Cardholder follows the 
 instructions we give you about using Cards and keeping them safe. You 
 are responsible for all use of the Card by an Additional Cardholder (even 
 if the Additional Cardholder does something which makes you break this 
 Agreement). If you wish to cancel any additional Card, you must return 
 the Card to us. 
 
14.2 We will give details about the Account to an Additional Cardholder 
 as long as we have your consent to do so. 
 
15.GENERAL 
 
15.1 We do not promise that services and benefits which we provide outside 
 the terms of this Agreement will always be available. We may withdraw 
 or vary these services or benefits at any time without giving you notice. 
 
15.2 We may record or monitor phone calls between us and you or an Additional 
 Cardholder so that we can check instructions and make sure that we are 
 meeting our service standards. 
 
15.3 We may transfer to any other person any or all of:
 
 
- our rights under this Agreement at any time; 
 
- our duties (including, without limitation, our duty to lend to you). 
 
 
We may do this without telling you. Your rights under this Agreement 
 and your legal rights (including under the Consumer Credit Act 1974) will 
 not be affected.
 
15.4 To cover our additional costs, we may charge:
 
(a) a late payment charge, if you fail to make your minimum monthly payment 
 by the Payment Date;
 
(b) a returned payment charge, if a payment you make to us by cheque 
 or direct debit is returned to us unpaid;
 
(c) a returned Cheque charge, if we do not pay a Cheque because doing 
 so would take you over the Credit Limit;
 
(d) a letter charge, for each letter we have to write to you if you break 
 this Agreement;
 
(e) a copy charge if you ask for a copy, for example, of a statement 
 or sales voucher;
 
(f) an over limit charge, if the Statement Balance is over the Credit 
 Limit. 
 
 The amount of each charge is set out in the Tariff.
 
We will also charge any other losses and reasonable costs which we incur 
 as a result of your breach. These include (but are not limited to) costs 
 of tracing you and enforcing payment of any amount due under this Agreement. 
 
 
 15.5 We will continue to charge interest on any late payment both before 
 and after any Court Judgement.
 
16.DEFINITIONS
 
16.1 In this Agreement:
 
Account means the credit card account we 
 open in your name;
 
Account Balance means the amount you owe 
 us on the Account from time to time;
 
Additional Cardholder means a person you 
 have asked us to give a Card to so that they can use the Account;
 
Agreement means these conditions as varied 
 from time to time and the credit agreement signed by you and us;
 
Balance Transfer means a payment in sterling 
 that you or an Additional Cardholder tell us to make to another person 
 in the United Kingdom which has the effect of transferring the amount 
 owed to that person to the Account;
 
Card means any Sainsbury's Bank credit 
 card which we give you or an Additional Cardholder to use on the Account;
 
Card Scheme means the international payment 
 organisation (whose logos and marks appear on the card)for example Visa 
 or MasterCard;
 
Cash Advance means cash (including foreign 
 currency) and cash substitutes such as a travellers cheque obtained by 
 use of a Card or the Card number;
 
Cash Balance means the amount you owe us 
 for Cash Advances (including the handling fee and any conversion fee);
 
Cash Limit means the limit we put on the 
 amount of the Cash Balance on the Account;
 
Charges means Credit Charges and Non Credit 
 Charges;
 
Cheque means a cheque we give you to use 
 with the Account;
 
Credit Charges means the charges and interest 
 you have to pay us under condition 3;
 
Credit Limit means the borrowing limit 
 on the Account at any time;
 
Non Credit Charges means the charges set 
 out in the Tariff and any other charges we may make under this Agreement 
 other than Credit Charges;
 
Payment Date means the date shown on your 
 statement by which your monthly payment must reach your Account or, if 
 that day is not a working day, the previous working day;
 
PIN means the personal identification number 
 we give you or any other number subsequently chosen by you;
 
Posting Date means the date on which an 
 item is charged to the Account;
 
Purchase means any payment for goods or services made by a Card or the 
 Card number or by Cheque;
 
Special Promotion means special terms (including 
 a reduced interest rate) which may apply during a Special Promotion Period 
 to some or all Transactions on the Account and which we may tell you about 
 when you open the Account, or by giving you written notice at any later 
 time;
 
Special Promotion Period means the duration 
 of any Special Promotion which we will tell you when we give you details 
 of the Special Promotion;
 
Statement Balance means the Account Balance 
 shown on each monthly statement;
 
Tariff means our list of specific Non Credit 
 Charges;
 
Transaction means a Balance Transfer, Cash 
 Advance or Purchase;
 
Transaction Date means the date when you 
 make a Purchase or take a Cash Advance.
 
IMPORTANT -YOU SHOULD READ THIS 
 CAREFULLY 
YOUR RIGHTS
 The Consumer Credit Act 1974 covers this Agreement and lays 
 down certain requirements for your protection which must be satisfied 
 when the Agreement is made. If they are not, we cannot enforce the Agreement 
 against you without a court order.
 The Act also gives you a number of rights. You have a right to settle 
 this Agreement at any time by giving notice in writing and paying off 
 all amounts payable under the Agreement. If you have obtained unsatisfactory 
 goods or services under a transaction financed by this Agreement, apart 
 from any purchased out of a cash loan, you may have a right to sue the 
 supplier, us or both. Similarly, if the contract is not fulfilled, perhaps 
 because the supplier has gone out of business, you may still be able to 
 sue us.
 If you would like to know more about the protection and remedies provided 
 under the Act, you should contact either your local Trading Standards 
 Department or your nearest Citizens' Advice Bureau.
 
LOSS OR MISUSE OF YOUR CARD
 If your Card is lost, stolen or misused by someone who obtained it without 
 your consent, you may be liable for up to £50 of any loss to us. 
 If it is misused with your permission you will probably be liable for 
 ALL losses. You will not be liable for losses to us which take place after 
 you have told us of the theft, etc.
 
You will not be responsible for a Transaction not authorised by you or 
 an Additional Cardholder if the Transaction is made using the Card number 
 when you are not present (e.g. by post, telephone or internet).
 
 
YOUR RIGHT TO CANCEL
 Once you have signed, you will have for a short time a right to cancel 
 this Agreement. You can do this by sending or taking a WRITTEN notice 
 of cancellation to: Sainsbury's Bank, Card Services, Pitreavie Business 
 Park, Dunfermline, Fife KY99 4BS.
 If you cancel this Agreement, any money you have paid, goods given in 
 part-exchange (or their value) and property given as security must be 
 returned to you. You will still have to repay any money lent to you. But 
 if you repay all of it before your first instalment is due - or, if you 
 are not paying by instalments, within one month after cancellation - you 
 will not have to pay interest or other charges.
 Any goods which you already have under the Agreement, apart from any purchased 
 out of a cash loan, will have to be returned. Such goods should not be 
 used and should be kept safe. (Legal action may be taken against you if 
 you do not take proper care of them.) You can wait for them to be collected 
 from you and you need not hand them over unless you receive a written 
 request. If you wish, however, you may return the goods yourself.
 You will not, however, be required to hand back any goods supplied to 
 meet an emergency or which have already been incorporated, for example 
 in your home. But you will still be liable to pay for emergency goods 
 or services or for any goods which have been incorporated by you or one 
 of your relatives.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tariff 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Conversion fee Europe 1.75% 
 
 
 
 
 
 Late payment charge £20
 
 
 
 
 
 Returned payment charge £20
 
 
 
 
 
 Returned Cheque charge £25 
 
 
 
 
 
 Letter charge £10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION ON INSURANCE CONTRACTS
 
Credit Care
 Insurers
 St.Andrew's Life Insurance plc Or in respect of Life: St.Andrew's Assurance 
 plc Head Office: St.Andrew 's House, Portsmouth Road, Esher, Surrey KT1O 
 9SA
 
Cover: After you have been unable to work 
 for 14 consecutive days or more due to illness, accident, injury or involuntary 
 unemployment, subject to policy conditions, St.Andrew's Insurance plc 
 will pay £10 or 10%of the insured balance (whichever is greater) 
 each month for up to 12 months thereafter. The insured balance on your 
 account will be paid in full in the event of your death.
 
Eligibility: To be eligible for Credit 
 Care, you must be aged between 18 and 64 and in employment or self-employment. 
 If you are not entirely satisfied with the protection offered, you can 
 cancel the policy within 30 days at no charge to you, provided you have 
 not made a claim. Cover ends at age 65.
 
Premium: Credit Care is charged at the 
 rate of 72p per £100 outstanding on your balance each month, with 
 a minimum premium payable of 72p. in the event of a nil balance being 
 shown, no premium is charged. Premiums payable by Cardholders resident 
 in the UK includes Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) at the current rate. This 
 is charged at 5% from 1st July 1999. The IPT amount will be rounded to 
 the nearest penny
 
Exclusions: As with other insurance policies there are some exclusions. 
 
 
- Your Credit Care policy will not cover claims arising from:
 
- disability for which there is no medical evidence.
 
- normal pregnancy and childbirth related conditions.
 
- attempted suicide or wilful exposure to danger.
 
- the influence of alcohol or drugs.
 
- any chronic or continuing medical condition which you knew of when 
 the 
 
- insurance started, or any condition for which you have
 
- received treatment or advice during the 12 months before that date.
 
- voluntary redundancy or unemployment, or any wilful act.
 
- unemployment which has not been certified by The Employment Service.
 
- unemployment which is a normal seasonal occurrence of the occupation, 
 
- which occurs at the end of a fixed term contract or which you should 
 reasonably 
 
- have known of at the start of the insurance
 
- war or related risks.
 
 
A specimen policy is available on request from 
 Sainsbury's Bank Card Services.
 
 Purchase Care
 Insurers
 St.Andrew's Insurance plc, St.Andrew's House, Portsmouth Road ,Esher, 
 Surrey KT10 9SA.
 
Cover: Purchases made on your Card (excluding 
 articles specified in your Policy) are covered against loss, theft or 
 accidental damage by purchase protection insurance, provided you are not 
 already insured. Purchase Care protects goods up to a total limit of £2,500 
 per account each year, subject to a minimum claim of £25,maximum 
 £500.The maximum amount payable in respect of any single insured 
 article is £500 and the first £25 of every claim is excluded.
 
Exclusions:
 As with other insurance policies there are some exclusions. Your Credit 
 Care policy will not cover claims arising from:
 
 
- disability for which there is no medical evidence.
 
- normal pregnancy and childbirth conditions.
 
- attempted suicide or wilful exposure to danger.
 
- the influence of alcohol or drugs.
 
- any chronic or continuing medical condition which you knew of when 
 the insurance started, or any condition for which you have received 
 treatment or advice during the 12 months before that date.
 
- voluntary redundancy or unemployment, or any wilful act. 
 
- unemployment which has not been certified by The Employment Service.
 
- unemployment which is a normal seasonal occurrence of the occupation, 
 which occurs at the end of a fixed term contract or which you should 
 reasonably have known of at the start of the insurance.
 
- war or related risks.
 
 
A specimen policy is available on request from 
 Sainsbury's Bank Card Services.
 
Purchase Care
 Insurers
 St. Andrew's Insurance plc, St. Andrew's House, Portsmouth Road, Esher, 
 Surrey KT10 9SA.
 
 
Cover: Purchases made on your Card (excluding 
 articles specified in your Policy) are covered against loss, theft or 
 accidental damage by purchase protection insurance, provided you are not 
 already insured. Purchase Care protects goods up to a total limit of £2,500 
 per account each year, subject to a minimum claim of £25, maximum 
 £500. The maximum amount payable in respect of any single insured 
 article is £500 and the first £25 of every claim is excluded.
 
Exclusions:
 The Insurers must be notified of a claim within 45 days of the date that 
 loss or damage occurs. Any loss, theft or damage caused by malicious persons 
 must be notified to the Police within 24 hours of discovery.
 As with other insurance policies, there are some exclusions such as: 
 
 
- flood and earthquake;
 
- normal wear and tear;
 
- damage arising from inherent product defects;
 
- confiscation by order of any government or public authority;
 
- where the article was procured through fraud;
 
- direct physical abuse of the article;
 
- electrical or mechanical breakdown;
 loss or damage to any mail order item or items delivered by courier 
 until goods are received and accepted at the cardholder's home address; 
 
 
- where the article was being used for business purposes;
 
- where the article was left unattended whilst not adequately secured 
 or was left unattended in a vehicle;
 
- loss or damage occurring outside the United Kingdom, Channel Islands 
 or the Isle of Man. 
 
 
A specimen policy is available on request from Sainsbury's 
 Bank Card Services.
 
Travel Accident Insurance
 Insurers
 Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group, St. Mark's Court, Chart Way, 
 Horsham, West Sussex RH12 1XL.
 
Cover: £50,000 Travel Accident Insurance 
 automatically covers you and your immediate family whenever you use your 
 Sainsbury's Bank credit card to pay for all or part of your travel tickets. 
 
Exclusions
 Claims must be made in writing within 20 days after the occurrence or 
 
 commencement of any loss or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible.
 As with other insurance policies, there are some exclusions such as: 
 
 
- death or disablement not resulting from bodily injury;
 
- suicide or any wilful act;
 
- drugs, unless taken in accordance with proper medical prescription;
 
- flying other than as a passenger, motor cycling on any motor cycle 
 
 with an engine capacity in excess of 50cc, racing on wheels;
 
- war. 
 
 
A specimen policy is available on request from Sainsbury's 
 Bank Card Services.
 
Fraudulent Claim Prevention
 Information about you and your insurance cover will be held by the insurers 
 in their records for the purpose of your insurance. This includes underwriting, 
 processing, claims handling and fraud prevention. In the event of an insurance 
 claim, you consent to any information which you provide whether on this 
 form, the claim form or otherwise, will be put onto a Register of Claims 
 through which insurers share such information to prevent fraudulent claims. 
 A list of participators and the name and address of the operator are available 
 from the Insurer.
 
SAINSBURY'S BANK CUSTOMER SERVICE
 It is our aim with the Insurers to provide a high standard of service. 
 However, there may be occasions when You feel that this has not been achieved. 
 If You have any reason to complain or enquire about the insurance cover, 
 You should initially contact Sainsbury's Bank Card Services at Pitreavie 
 Business Park, Dunfermline, Fife KY99 4BS.
 If the matter is not then resolved to Your satisfaction, You can take the 
 matter up with the Insurer concerned at the appropriate address. Please 
 provide details of Your Card account number/claim number in order that Your 
 enquiry may be dealt with speedily.
If You are still dissatisfied, You have the right to refer to the Insurance 
 Ombudsman Bureau (IOB), which is authorised to consider most complaints, 
 to review Your case. The address to write to is: Insurance Ombudsman Bureau, 
 Financial Ombudsman's Service, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, Docklands, 
 London, E14 9SR. Telephone 0845 600 6666
 If You contact the IOB in respect of any complaint, this will not affect 
 any right of action which You may have against the Insurers.
 
POLICYHOLDERS PROTECTION ACT 1975
 For your added security, should any of the Insurers become unable to meet 
 their liabilities under the policy, you may be entitled to compensation 
 under the Policyholders Protection Act 1975. Further details are available 
 on request from the Insurers.
 CHOICE OF LAW
 Unless otherwise agreed, the law of the part of the UK in which you live 
 will cover this contract 
 GENERAL
 The insurance policies are arranged by Sainsbury's Bank acting as an agent 
 for the underwriters listed above. St. Andrew's Life Assurance plc, St. 
 Andrew's Insurance plc and Bank of Scotland are connected companies as 
 the ultimate parent company of St. Andrew's Life and St. Andrew's Insurance 
 also has shares in Sainsbury's Bank plc. Sainsbury's Bank markets certain 
 insurance products which are branded in the name of the company ; each 
 of these products is specially negotiated with a particular insurer. We 
 have undertaken to comply with the Association of British Insurers' Code 
 of Practice for the selling of General Insurance. A copy of the Code is 
 available on request.
 .
 CARD CARE
 Sainsbury's Bank plc strongly recommends that all your cards are insured 
 with Card Care. One FREE call at any time, from anywhere in the world, ensures 
 any missing cards are cancelled and replacements ordered. With up to £1000 
 to cover your legal liabilities if your cards are used fraudulently. Your 
 liability is normally limited to £50 for most UK issued Credit Cards. 
 Card Care offers peace of mind. Card Care is a service of Card Protection 
 Plan Limited (CPP), arranged exclusively for Sainsbury's Bank Cardholders. 
 If you are stranded without cards, CPP can send you an emergency cash advance 
 of up to US $1,000 and if necessary, a travel ticket home. CPP also returns 
 lost keys and advises your card issuers when you move home. Excellent value 
 for just £12 per person per year (premiums are inclusive of Insurance 
 Premium Tax at the current rate). The insurance benefits comprised in the 
 Card Care policy are provided through Card Protection Plan Limited (CPP), 
 who arrange direct cover for you, as your agent, with an authorised insurance 
 company. The Insurer has chosen English law to govern the policy. Further 
 details and an insurance policy pack will be forwarded on acceptance of 
 your proposal. The information that you give will be held by CPP, as an 
 agent for the insurer, to administer the policy for which you apply. Your 
 personal data will be processed in accordance with CPP's entry in the Data 
 Protection Register. Any complaints should be addressed to Card Protection 
 Plan Limited, P.O.Box 353, York YO24 4YS. Full details 
 of all our cardholder Care services will be issued to you with your Card(s) 
 including Certificates of Insurance for Purchase Care, Credit Care and Travel 
 Accident Insurance. 
 
Registered Address:
 Card Protection Plan Limited,
 Holgate Park,
 York YO24 4GA
 
 Visa is a registered trademark of Visa International Inc. Sainsbury's 
 Bank is a trademark of Sainsbury's Bank plc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
