
Legal - Credit Cards - For People - Ulster Bank (NI)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MasterCard/Visa | Legal | Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Accounts
Savings & Investments
Buying a Home
Credit Cards
Personal Loans
Graduates
Students
Pensions/Life Assurance
Insurance
Euro
Online Privacy Policy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CONSUMER CREDIT NOTICES
 
Cards are issued subject to status and conditions. Applicants must be 18 or over. 
 
Formalities include the use of Credit Reference Agencies who will note that an 
 enquiry has been made about you. If you borrow and do not repay in full, within the 
 agreed terms, Credit Reference Agencies may be advised and will note the outstanding 
 debt. This may affect any future applications for credit facilities through the Ulster 
 Bank Limited Group of Companies (Ulster Bank) or other lenders. 
 
Written quotations are available on request from Ulster Bank Limited, Retail 
 Marketing, 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast BT1 5HD or from any branch of Ulster Bank. 
 
MasterCard/Visa Terms and Conditions
 
CONDITIONS OF USE.
 These Conditions of Use apply to the use 
 of any MasterCard or Visa Card issued and supplied by Us to 
 You ("the Principal Cardholder") or at Your request and subject to
	Our discretion to any other 
 person authorised by You to receive such a Card from time to time 
 in respect of Your Account ("the Additional Cardholder"). 
	
 
1. Definitions 
	 
In these Conditions of Use: 
	
 "ACCOUNT" means an Account which We will open and maintain 
 for You in respect of which a Card, Cards or Credit Card Cheques 
 may be issued; 
	
 "ADDITIONAL CARDS" means all Cards issued on an Account to 
 Additional Cardholders;
	
 "ADVANCE" means each of the following: 
	
 	
	
- a cash withdrawal obtained by a Cardholder by the use of a Card; 
 	
 	
- a purchase of foreign currency or travellers' cheques obtained by 
 	 a Cardholder by the use of a Card;
 	
- the amount of a transaction using a Credit Card Cheque; and
 	
- a Balance Transfer;
	
 
	"AGREEMENT" means the Credit Agreement regulated by The 
 Consumer Credit Act 1974 between Us and the Principal Cardholder; 
 
 "BALANCE TRANSFER" means a transfer that We may from 
 time to time allow to Your Account of an amount owed to another 
 financial institution; 
	
 "CARD" means an Ulster Bank MasterCard or Visa Card, including 
 any renewal, replacement or Additional Card or Cards;
	
 "CARDHOLDER" 
 means the Principal Cardholder and any Additional Cardholder;
	
 "CREDIT CARD CHEQUE" means a cheque that We may provide 
 to You to use with Your Account;
	
 "CREDIT LIMIT" means the maximum debit balance allowed on 
 an Account;
	
	"MINIMUM SUM" means the greater of £5 or 5% of the oustanding
	balance;	
	
 "PAYMENT HOLIDAY" means a period when We allow You 
 to miss a payment that is otherwise due; 
	
 "PIN" means a personal identification number that We 
 issue for use with a Card; 
	
 "PURCHASE" means a transaction of goods or services obtained 
 by a Cardholder by the use of a Royal Bank of Scotland Group Card;
	
	"ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP" means the companies which form part
	of the Royal Bank of Scotland group of companies and which includes Us and 
	Our subsidiaries;
	
 "SCHEMES" means the card payment Schemes operated by Visa 
 International and MasterCard International; 
	
 "SPECIAL PROMOTION" means a promotion that We may make available 
 to all or some Cardholders from time to time; 
	
	"US/WE/OUR" means Ulster Bank Limited, Card Products Department,
	PO Box 244, Belfast, BT2 7AY;
	
 "YOU/YOUR" 
 means the Principal Cardholder. 
 
	 2. Issuing of Cards and Credit Card Cheques
	
 2.1 All 
 Cards and Credit Card Cheques are and remain the property of Us. 
	You must immediately return all issued Cards and Credit Card 
 Cheques to Us or Our agents upon request where We or they 
 believe there is a good reason to request the Cards and Credit Card 
 Cheques to be returned. 
 
2.2 We may provide You with Credit Card Cheques from time 
 to time. You can use Credit Card Cheques for transactions up to 
 the available Credit Limit (and for any other use that We allow). You 
 must only use Your Credit Card Cheques to make payments in sterling. 
 You cannot use them to make payments to Us or to any other 
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group company. We may from time to time for as long 
 as this Agreement continues provide further Credit Card Cheques. 
 
 
3. Use of Your Card, and PIN and Credit Card Cheques 
 
3.1 You must make sure that: 
 
- all Cards are immediately signed on receipt by the appropriate 
 Cardholder and all Cards and Credit Card Cheques are kept secure 
 at all times; 
 
- the Cardholder memorises the PIN and then immediately destroys 
 the notification slip; 
 
- the PIN is not made known to any other person and if it is 
 written down it is well disguised and not written on the Card or 
 anything kept with the Card; 
 
- in using the Card and Credit Card Cheques the Credit Limit 
 is not exceeded;
 
- Cards or Credit Card Cheques are not used before or after the 
 validity period stated on the Card or notified to You with Your 
 Credit Card Cheques or after any notification of cancellation or 
 withdrawal of the Card or Credit Card Cheques to You by Us 
 or its agents; and 
 
- You notify Us immediately in respect of any change to:- 
 a Cardholder's name, Your bankers, Your business and home telephone 
 number and Your address to which Statements are sent in accordance 
 with Condition 6.3. 
 
3.2 We reserve the right at all times without notice to:
 
- refuse to authorise any Purchase or Advance; 
 
- cancel or suspend the right to use any Card, or PIN, or Credit 
 Card Cheque entirely or in respect of specific functions or transactions; 
 
 
- refuse to renew or replace any Card without affecting Your 
 obligations under this Agreement which shall remain in force; and 
 
 
- return a Credit Card Cheque unpaid; 
	
	provided that We have a valid reason for doing so.
	 
 We will not be liable to You or any Additional Cardholder for 
 any loss or damage arising as a result of Us exercising Our 
 rights in accordance with this Condition. 
 
4. Your Account
 
 4.1 We will debit to Your Account the amount of each Purchase 
 and of each Advance. We may be contacted by a retailer or 
 a person acting on its or the retailer's behalf to confirm that 
 it will authorise a proposed Purchase or Advance. Purchases or Advances 
 which are authorised are treated as having been debited to the Account 
 on the date of authorisation and will immediately reduce the credit 
 available on the Account by the amount of the Purchase or Advance. 
 
 
5. Foreign Currency Transactions 
 
5.1 The amount of any Purchase or Advance in a currency other than 
 Sterling will be converted into Sterling at a rate of exchange determined 
 by the Schemes. In addition, the rate of exchange shown on Your Statement 
 will include an administration levy of 2.75% as explained in Condition 
 7.2. 
 
6. Payment 
 
	 6.1 Repayment will take place when repayments are credited to Your 
 Account and will be applied in the following order:
 
	
- in payment of all interest, annual fee (where applicable), administration 
 	charges and handling charges shown on any Statement;
 	
- towards repayment of all Advances shown on any Statement;
 
	 	
- towards repayment of all Purchases shown on any Statement; 
 	
- towards repayment of any Advance made but not then shown on 
 	any Statement; and 
 	
- towards repayment of any Purchases made but not then shown on 
 	any Statement.
	
	
 
6.2 From time to time, We may notify You of Special Promotions 
 which may include a reduced rate of interest or special terms 
 We may offer for particular transactions or categories of transaction. 
 On these occasions, repayments will be applied towards repayment 
 of Special Promotion Advances and Purchases before the repayments 
 shown in Condition 6.1 (ii) to (v), but in the same order for Advances 
 and Purchases.
 
 6.3 We will send a Statement of Your Account ('Statement') 
 to You each month, except where there has been no movement on the 
 Account during the period to which the Statement relates and the 
 balance of the Account is nil. The Statement will detail the minimum 
 sum You must repay and the date by which such repayment must reach 
 the Account. The minimum sum will be the greater of £5 or 5% of 
 the outstanding balance. Where the outstanding balance is less than 
 £5, the minimum sum will be the whole of the outstanding balance. 
 If You wish to query any item on any Statement, You must contact 
 Us immediately. 
 
6.4 We may give You the opportunity from time to time to 
 take a Payment Holiday. During Payment Holidays, We will continue 
 to work out and charge interest under Condition 7. The Payment Holiday 
 will not extend the period referred to in Condition 7.1 during which 
 You must repay the outstanding balance in full to avoid paying interest. 
 
 
7. Interest 
 
7.1 With the exception of interest on Credit Card Cheques and Balance 
 Transfers, no interest will be charged on any amount debited to 
 Your Account in respect of Purchases or Advances if the whole of 
 the outstanding balance on a Statement is paid in full and credited 
 to the Account within 25 days of the Statement date. If the full 
 balance is not repaid within the 25 day period, interest is charged 
 at a daily rate on the full balance from the date each Purchase 
 or Advance was debited to the Account until full repayment is credited 
 to the Account. Interest on Credit Card Cheque and Balance Transfer 
 transactions will be charged at a daily rate from the date the transaction 
 was debited until full repayment is made. Interest will be charged 
 each month and calculated on a daily basis. 
 
7.2 In calculating the APR, no account has been taken of 
 Our right to vary the interest rate, handling charge or annual 
 fee, which together with the administration levy may be varied on 
 notice to You with Your Statement, or otherwise in writing, by way 
 of notice at our branches and/or advertisement in the national press. 
 On receipt of such notification, You may terminate the Agreement 
 by serving notice in accordance with Condition 16.1. A handling 
 charge of 1.5% (minimum charge £2.00) is payable on each Advance 
 (with the exception of a Balance Transfer for which no handling 
 charge is made) and the APR for Advances (apart from Balance 
 Transfers) will include the handling charge. In addition, in respect 
 of all foreign currency transactions there is an administration 
 levy equivalent to 2.75% of the transaction value. 
 
 
8. Financial Details
 
 8.1 The financial particulars of the Cards are detailed below.
 
Monthly
Interest
Rate 
 
Per
Interest
Rate 
 
Sample
Credit
Limit 
 
Annual
Card
Fee 
 
Additional
Card Fee
 
APR
(Purchases
& Balance
Transfers)
 
APR
(Advances apart from Balance Transfers)
 
Introductory Rate
(until 6 months from
date Account opened)
 
Master
Card
 
0.158%
 
1.9%
 
£1,000
 
N/A
 
£0
 
N/A
 
N/A
 
Visa
 
0.158%
 
1.9%
 
£1,000
 
N/A
 
£0
 
N/A
 
N/A
 
Standard Rate
(after 6 months from
date Account opened)
 
Master
Card
 
1.456%
 
17.47%
 
£1,000
 
N/A
 
£0
 
18.9%
 
20.8%
 
Visa
 
1.456%
 
17.47%
 
£1,000
 
N/A
 
£0
 
18.9%
 
20.8%
 
 
 
9. Credit Limit 
 
9.1 The Credit Limit on Your Account will be that indicated in 
 Condition 8.1 or such other Credit Limit as We may notify 
 to You from time to time. We may vary such Credit Limit from 
 time to time and will notify You of any such variation. You may 
 apply for, and We may consider, a variation in Your Credit 
 Limit at any time subject to Your circumstances and Our Conditions 
 at the time of application.
 
9.2 The available credit on Your Account will be based on: 
 
- Your Credit Limit;
 
- amounts debited to Your Account; and 
 
- payments received from You which are paid into Your Account 
 as cleared funds.
 
10. Additional Cards
 
 10.1 On the written request of the Principal Cardholder, We 
 may supply an Additional Card and a PIN to any person nominated 
 as an Additional Cardholder (as long as that nominated person is 
 over the age of majority). These Conditions of Use apply to the use of 
 such a Card and PIN, and You will be liable for its use as if the 
 Additional Card was used by You. 
 
11. Charges 
 
11.1 We reserve the right to charge the Principal Cardholder 
 a fee of: 
 
- £8 (which amount may be varied on notice to You) each time the 
 Credit Limit is exceeded; and 
 
- £8 (which amount may be varied on notice to You) each time 
 there is a failure to make a payment by the required date. 
 We will notify You in advance of the amount of the charge and 
 when it will be debited to Your Account. These fees may be in addition 
 to other charges made in connection with Your Account. 
 
12. Lost and Stolen Cards and Credit Card Cheques
 
 12.1 If any Card or Credit Card Cheques are lost or stolen or 
 if the PIN becomes known to any other person or the Card or PIN 
 is for any other reason liable to be misused, the Cardholder must, 
 as soon as possible, notify Our Card Loss Centre at: Ulster 
 Bank Limited, Card Products Department, PO Box 244, Belfast BT2 
 7AY. Telephone Number (0870) 6000 459 (24 hours) or
 +44 1423 700 545 if phoning from abroad. If a Card 
 or Credit Card Cheque is subsequently found, it must not be used. 
 The Card must be returned to Us immediately, cut in two across 
 the magnetic stripe, if it has one, or alternatively it should be 
 destroyed by cutting off the right hand corner and the Credit Card 
 Cheque should be destroyed. 
	
 
12.2 Where notice is given to Us in accordance with Condition 
 12.1, Cardholders must not use any Card or Credit Card Cheque issued 
 in respect of the Account, and You must return all the Cards to 
 Us having immediately cut in two across the magnetic stripe, if they 
 have one, or alternatively they should be destroyed by cutting off 
 the right hand corner and any Credit Card Cheques should also be
	destroyed.
	
 
13. Your Liability for Unauthorised Card Use 
 
13.1 The maximum liability of the Principal Cardholder will be 
 £25 per Account for any losses arising from the use of any Card 
 or PIN by any unauthorised person before We receive notification 
 in accordance with Condition 12.1. You will nevertheless be liable 
 for all losses to Us arising from the use of any Card by any 
 person obtaining possession of it with a Cardholder's consent or 
 where a Cardholder has been grossly negligent. 
	
 
13.2 Cardholders will assist Us or Our agent in the investigation 
 of the loss, theft or possible misuse of a Card, Credit Card Cheque 
 or the disclosure of the PIN and assist Us to recover a Card 
 or Credit Card Cheque. You consent to the disclosure to third parties 
 of any relevant information concerning the Account in connection 
 with such matters. 
 
14. Your Information 
	
	 Your account is with Ulster Bank Limited, 11-16 Donegall Square East, 
	Belfast BT1 5UB who is the data controller. Where We refer to ‘Group’ 
	in this clause, We are referring to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
	group of companies.
	
	
	14.1 Your information may be held on a Group database and used by Us 
	and any Group company for the purposes set out in this clause. Your 
	information includes any information which We or any Group company holds, 
	now or at any time in the future and which comes from or relates to:
	
	
	
- application forms or other dealings with any Group company;
	
- third parties such as credit reference agencies and parties associated with You;
	
- Your products and services from any Group company; and	
	
- Your transactions, including the name of the supplier and the general nature of the 
	goods and services. You pay for from Your account using a card or other 
	non-cash method.
	
	
	We understand that there may be transactions about which You do not want Us to have 
	or use information. In these circumstances, You may prefer to pay by cash.
	
	
	14.2 We and other Group companies will use, analyse and assess Your Information 
	to maintain and develop Our relationships with You. This will include the following 
	purposes:
	
	
	
- considering any applications made by You and helping Us make credit-related decisions about You;
	
- operating and administering the services We and/or they supply;
	
- servicing Your relationships with Group companies;
	
- financial risk assessment, money laundering checks, compliance and regulatory 
	 reporting and fraud prevention;
	
- helping Us and Our insurance underwriters to make decisions on insurance proposals 
	 and claims such as motor, household, payment protection and life, for You, members of 
	Your household and others connected with Your insurance proposals and claims;
	
- helping Us and them to identify products and services which may interest You (unless You 
	 have asked Us not to); and
	
- helping Us and them to understand and develop Our and their business including new and 
	 innovative products and services.
	
	
	14.3 As Our business and Our relationship with You develop, the way in which We look at, record 
	and use Your information may change. In most cases, these changes will result from enhancements 
	in technology and, We believe, will be in line with Your expectations. Where We believe the 
	changes may not be obvious to You, We will give You notice of them.
	When You sign an application form for a product or service, You are agreeing that by continuing 
	to maintain Your Account, product or service for at least 60 days after We have notified You of 
	a change, You will be consenting to that change (unless You write to Us to tell Us that You do 
	not wish Us to use Your information in the new way).
	
	
14.4 For operational reasons such as in i), ii), iii), iv) and v) In condition 14.2 above, We may link 
	 Your information between Your accounts and other products and services 
	You maintain with Us, and also Your information with information about others with whom You have 
	a financial link. We will not use the links for marketing purposes without Your consent.
	
	
	14.5 We and other Group companies would like to tell You by letter, phone or fax, including 
	automatic dialling, e-mail or other electronic means, about products and services which We believe 
	would be of interest to You and which are offered by Us and other selected companies. If You do 
	not want Us to do this, please write to Ulster Bank, FREEPOST BEL 4084, Customer Relations, Belfast, 
	BT1 5BR quoting sufficient information, including Your Credit Card Account Number and the names of 
	all the Group companies which provides a product or service to You.
	
	
	Please note this may mean that We will not be able to tell You about additional benefits available 
	to Our customers.
	
	
	14.6 We do not disclose Your information outside the Group except:
	
	
- for operational reasons referred to in i), ii), iii), iv) and v) in Condition 14.2 above;
	
- where We have Your consent;
	
- where We are required or permitted to do so by law;
	
- to persons to whom We may transfer rights and obligations under this Agreement;
	
- to any persons, including insurers, who provide a service to Us, who have agreed to keep Your 
	 information strictly confidential;
	
- to any persons, including insurers and lenders, who supply benefits or services to You under 
	 or in connection with this Agreement; or
	
- to credit reference and fraud prevention agencies as set out below.
	
	
	
	 14.7 In order to provide the services You have requested or may request from time to time, it may be 
	necessary for Your information to be transferred to someone who provides a service to Us in other 
	countries. If We do this, We will ensure that anyone to whom We pass Your information agrees to treat 
	Your information with the same level of protection as if We were dealing with it.
	
	
	 14.8 You have the right of access to Your personal records held on Our files by written request to 
	Ulster Bank, FREEPOST BEL 4084, Customer Relations, Belfast, BT1 5BR and on payment of a fee.
	
	
 	 Credit reference and fraud prevention agencies
	 
	14.9 An "association" between the joint applicants and/or any individual identified as Your financial 
	partner, will be created at credit reference agencies, which will link Your financial records. You 
	and anyone else with whom You have a financial link understand that each other’s information will be 
	taken into account in all future applications by either or both of You, unless, whoever applies, 
	instructs otherwise. This linking will continue until a ‘disassociation’ is filed successfully at the 
	credit reference agencies following such an instruction. If either of You applies for access to 
	information held at credit reference agencies, the applicant will receive the name(s) of any 
	associate(s), but only information relating to him/herself.
	
	We may make periodic searches of credit reference and fraud prevention agencies to manage Your account 
	with Us, to take decisions regarding credit, including whether to make credit available or to continue or 
	extend existing credit. The searches will not be seen or used by lenders to assess Your ability to 
	obtain credit.
	
	Where You borrow or may borrow from Us, We may give details of Your account and how You manage it to 
	credit reference agencies. If You borrow and do not repay in full and on time, We may tell credit reference 
	agencies who will record the outstanding debt.
	
	You have the right of access to Your personal records held by credit reference agencies. We will supply the 
	names and addresses of credit reference and fraud prevention agencies used by the Group upon request to Ulster 
	Bank, FREEPOST BEL 4084, Customer Relations, Belfast BT1 5BR.
	
	
	
 
15. Additional Features 
 
15.1 We may make available additional features subject to 
 such Terms and Conditions as notified to You from time to time.
 
15.2 We may replace, remove, amend or vary any or all of the 
 additional features. Any such changes will be effective upon notice 
 to You and notice shall be by any means We see fit as permitted 
 by law.
 
16. Termination of this Agreement 
 
16.1 Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time on written 
 notice to the other party. You may also terminate this Agreement 
 by telephone, provided that reasonable security checks are completed 
 satisfactorily. If either party exercises its right to terminate,
 then all Cards issued in respect of the Account must be returned 
 to Us (Cards must be cut in two across the magnetic stripe, if they have 
	one, or alternatively they should be destroyed by cutting off the 
 right hand corner) and any Credit Card Cheques must be destroyed together 
 with the repayment of the outstanding balance on the Account. 
	
	At the written request of the Cardholder accompanied by return of any 
 Additional Cards (cut in two across the magnetic stripe, if they 
 have one, or alternatively they should be destroyed by cutting off 
 the right hand corner), We may cancel such Additional Cards.
 
 16.2 We may subject to the terms of a notice served on You 
 terminate this Agreement or demand repayment of the outstanding 
 balance on the Account or both for breach of any of these Conditions 
 of Use. Subject to Our rights and powers under this Agreement, 
 until such termination takes place We will provide new Cards 
 and may provide Credit Card Cheques for Cardholders from time to 
 time. 
 
16.3 Where You have given notice of termination to Us under 
 Condition 16.1, this Agreement will not be terminated until you have 
 arranged for all continuous authority transactions which are debited 
 from the Account to be cancelled and all cancellations have taken 
 effect. 
 
17. General Provisions 
 
17.1 We reserve the right at all times to supplement, amend, 
 or vary these Conditions of Use as a result of a requirement of 
 law, customer feedback, or product development or such other reason 
 as is communicated to You at the time of notification of change. 
 Any such change will be effective upon notice to You and notice 
 shall be by any means We see fit as permitted by law. On 
 receipt of such notification, You may terminate this Agreement in 
 accordance with Condition 16.1. 
 
17.2 On bankruptcy or death, Your obligations will continue until 
 all Cards issued in respect of the Account are returned (Cards must 
 be cut in two across the magnetic stripe, if they have one, or alternatively 
 they should be destroyed by cutting off the right hand corner and any Credit 
 Card Cheques must be destroyed), and We are repaid in full. 
 Any Additional Cardholder will immediately cease to use the Card 
 and return it to Us (cut in two across the magnetic stripe, 
 if it has one, or alternatively it should be destroyed by cutting 
 off the right hand corner).
 
 17.3 We will not be liable for any circumstances affecting 
 the use of the Card where such matters are not within Our direct 
 control, including but not limited to:
 
- the failure of any retailer or supplier to accept or honour 
 a Card or Credit Card Cheque; 
 
- the manner in which the refusal to accept the Card or Credit 
 Card Cheque is communicated to You; or
 
- any machine malfunction or failure, strike or dispute. 
 
17.4 We will credit the Account with the amount of any refund 
 due to You on receipt of a properly issued refund voucher or other 
 verification of the refund by a retailer or supplier in a form acceptable 
 to Us. 
 
17.5 We may at any time disclose details about You or Your 
 Account to any agent of Us for the time being for the purposes 
 of processing a Card or Credit Card Cheque transaction or otherwise 
 fulfilling Our obligations under this Agreement or to the 
 Schemes.
 
 17.6 The waiver by Us of any breach of any Term of this 
 Agreement will not prevent the subsequent enforcement of that Term 
 and will not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent breach. 
 
17.7 We may monitor and record Your phone calls with Us to ensure 
 security for Our customers and staff and in order to maintain and improve 
 Our service. 
 
17.8 This Agreement and these Conditions of Use are governed by 
 the Law of Northern Ireland. 
 
 YOUR RIGHT TO CANCEL 
 
Once you have signed, you will have for a short time a right to 
 cancel this Agreement. You can do this by sending or taking a WRITTEN 
 notice of cancellation to: Ulster Bank, Card Products Department, 
 11/16 Donegall Square East, Belfast BT1 5UB.
 If You cancel the Agreement, any money you have paid, goods given 
 in part exchange (or their value) and property given as security 
 must be returned to you. You will still have to repay any money 
 lent to You. But if You repay all of it before Your first instalment 
 is due - or, if you are not paying by instalments, within one month 
 after cancellation - You will not have to pay interest or other 
 charges. Any goods which you already have under the Agreement, apart 
 from any purchased out of a cash loan, will have to be returned. 
 Such goods should not be used and should be kept safe. (Legal action 
 may be taken against you if you do not take proper care of them.) 
 You can wait for them to be collected from you and you need not 
 hand them over unless you receive a written request. If you wish, 
 however, You may return the goods yourself. You will not, however, 
 be required to hand back any goods supplied to meet an emergency, 
 or which have already been incorporated, for example, in Your home. 
 But you will still be liable to pay for emergency goods or services 
 or for any goods which have been incorporated by You or one of Your 
 relatives. 
	
 
IMPORTANT - YOU SHOULD READ THIS CAREFULLY
 YOUR RIGHTS
 
 The Consumer Credit Act 1974 covers this Agreement and lays down 
 certain requirements for your protection which must be satisfied 
 when the Agreement is made. If they are not, the Bank cannot enforce 
 the Agreement against you without a court order.
 
 The Act also gives you a number of rights. You have the right to 
 settle this Agreement at any time by giving notice in writing and 
 paying off all amounts payable under the agreement. If you have 
 obtained unsatisfactory goods or services under a transaction financed 
 by this Agreement, apart from any purchased out of a cash loan, 
 you may have a right to sue the supplier, the Bank or both. Similarly, 
 if the contract is not fulfilled, perhaps because the supplier has 
 gone out of business, you may still be able to sue the Bank. If 
 you would like to know more about the protection and remedies provided 
 under the Act, you should contact either your local Trading Standards 
 Department or your nearest Citizens' Advice Bureau. 
 
LOSS OR MISUSE OF CARD 
 
If the Card is lost, stolen or misused by someone who obtained 
 it without your consent, you may be liable for up to £25 of any 
 loss to the Bank. If it is misused with your permission, you will 
 probably be liable for ALL losses. You will not be liable for losses 
 to the Bank which take place after you have told the Bank of the 
 theft etc.
 
	CREDIT CARD REPAYMENT PROTECTOR
 WHO CAN HAVE IT?
	
 
 Your acceptance is assured, provided You are:
 
- the principal cardholder between the age of majority and 64 years, 
 
 
- permanently living and working in the UK, Channel Islands or the 
 Isle of Man and, 
 
- have been in permanent paid employment, including self-employment, 
 of at least 16 hours per week for the past six months. 
 Credit Card Repayment Protector cover automatically ceases at age 
 65.
 Fixed-term contract workers are eligible for cover but, in the 
 event of an unemployment claim, the exclusion in the "What is not 
 covered?" section relating to fixed-term contracts may apply.
 If You are self-employed, You can only claim unemployment benefit if 
 You involuntarily cease trading due to the financial insolvency of 
 Your business.
 If You are in temporary work, You cannot be covered 
 under this insurance.
 Any change in Your employment status may affect 
 Your entitlement to claim. 
 
HOW MUCH DOES IT COST? 
 
The cover costs 77p for every £100 shown on Your statement balance. 
 A minimum charge of 15p will be made for outstanding monthly balances 
 of less than £20. No charge will be made if your balance is nil. Premiums 
	are applied automatically and charged 
 to Your Credit Card Account each month. The premiums quoted are 
 correct at time of issue and include Insurance Premium Tax at the 
 appropriate rate. The rate of this tax may be liable to change. 
 
 
HOW CREDIT CARD REPAYMENT PROTECTOR WORKS
 
 
- If You are unable to work due to an accident or sickness, or 
 if You become registered unemployed involuntarily, this insurance 
 can repay 10% of the outstanding balance on the last statement before 
 You became ill or were first advised You were to become unemployed.
 
- Payments continue for each subsequent full month of continuous 
 disability or unemployment. Any two periods of disability or unemployment 
 will be treated as one claim if there are less than three consecutive 
 months of employment between them, providing that for disability 
 claims the disability arises from the same cause. Should a claim 
 change from disability to unemployment or vice versa, it will also 
 be treated as one claim. You cannot claim for disability and unemployment 
 at the same time. A maximum of twelve months' payments will be made 
 for any one claim and once this has been received You will not be 
 able to claim again until You have returned to employment for a 
 continuous period of at least six months. 
 
- If You die, the outstanding balance on the last statement before 
 Your death will be cleared in full. 
 
- Under present UK legislation, all benefits payable are free of taxation
 with the exception of any benefit payable if You die which may be subject 
 to inheritance tax. This situation may be liable to change. 
 
- There is a maximum limit of £7,500 for death cover and £750 per 
 month for any disability or unemployment claim. 
 
WHAT IS NOT COVERED?
 
Insurers will not be liable for periods of disability:
 
	 
- of less than 14 consecutive days;
 
- resulting from any medical condition for which treatment has been 
 	given or diagnosis had been made or investigations commencing during
 	12 months immediately before Your commencement date;
 	
- resulting from Your wilful action, deliberate actions, drug addiction or drug
 	dependence or taking alcohol or drugs, except under a Doctor’s direction
 	(unless that direction relates to the treatment of drug addiction or
 	dependence).
	
- arising from normal pregnancy or childbirth;
	 
 Insurers will not be liable for periods of unemployment:
 
- of less than 30 consecutive days;
 
- notified or commencing within 30 days of commencement of cover;
 
- which You knew to be impending when You signed the Credit Card 
 Application Form;
 
- which are a normal or seasonal occurrence or a normal incident 
 in Your occupation; 
 
- resulting from the non-renewal of a fixed-term contract, unless 
 the contract has been renewed on two consecutive occasions prior 
 to the loss of employment; 
 
- occurring whilst You are employed outside the UK for a period 
 intended to exceed 30 days;
 
- which are voluntary or result from Your misconduct or industrial 
 action in which You are directly involved.
 
COOLING OFF
 
 If You are not entirely satisfied on receipt of Your Certificate 
 of Insurance, You have 14 days to return it to us for cancellation 
 and, provided there are no claims, we will refund any premium paid. 
 
 
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
 Insurance companies and their agents share information with each 
 other to prevent fraudulent claims via a Register of Claims. 
	
	A list of participants is available on request. If You make a claim, the 
 information You supplied on Your application form and any other 
 information You supply in relation to a claim will be provided to 
 the Register.
 
Credit Card Repayment Protector has been arranged by Ulster Bank Limited and 
 is administered by NatWest Insurance Services a trading name of 
 RBS Group Insurance Services Limited, which acts as an independent 
 intermediary for a number of Insurers under the Association of British 
 Insurers' Code of Practice. 
 
The Certificate of Insurance contains full details of the Insurers' 
 arrangements for handling policyholders' complaints. Your legal rights 
 are not affected by following the complaints procedure.
 
You and the Insurers have a legal right to choose which law will 
 apply to this contract. Unless we agree otherwise, the law which applies
 to this contract is the law of England and Wales.
 
The premium rate and terms may change, but the Insurers will give You at
 least 30 days' notice. Cover begins when Your account is opened or when
 Your application is accepted, if later, for a period of one month and 
 continues for each month the premium is paid until You retire or reach 
 the age of 65, if this occurs first, or the cover is cancelled by You
 or the Insurers. Full details of how the policy can be cancelled is in the
	Certificate of Insurance.
	
 
The life insurance is underwritten by Direct Line Life Insurance Company 
 Limited. Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited is regulated by 
 The Financial Services Authority. Registered Office, 3 Edridge Road, 
 Croydon, Surrey, CR9 1AG. Registered in England No. 2199286.
	 
 The accident sickness and unemployment insurance is underwritten by UK 
 Insurance Limited, a member of the Association of British Insurers and 
 the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau. Registered Office, Cote Lane, Leeds,
 West Yorkshire, LS99 2LZ. Registered in England No. 1179980.
 
 For Your added security, should UK Insurance Limited and Direct Line
 Life Insurance Company Limited become unable to meet their liabilities 
 under this policy, You may be entitled to compensation under the
 Policyholders Protection Act 1975. Further details are available on
 request.
 
This is only a summary of cover. Full details are provided in the 
 Certificate of Insurance, a copy of which is available in Your welcome
 pack or from UK Insurance Limited on telephone number 0845 601 3204. 
 In order to maintain the highest levels of service, UK Insurance Limited
 may record and monitor telephone communications.
 
You must tell us of any change in Your employment status or medical
 condition, or any change to Your address or any other changes which
 may affect Your policy, as failure to do so could affect Your cover.
 
	 Ulster Bank Limited and NatWest Insurance Services are 
	 connected to the Insurers of Credit Card Repayment Protector as they 
	 are all members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
	
 
TRAVEL ACCIDENT INSURANCE
 
Covers the Principal Cardholder, spouse, and unmarried dependent 
 children under 23 for accidental death, loss of limb or permanent 
 total disablement whilst travelling on fee paying passenger carrying 
 transport where the travel tickets have been charged to the Card. 
 
 NB. This policy does not insure against cancellation, loss of baggage 
 and money, medical expenses and other similar risks. We recommend 
 that You consider a suitable travel insurance policy. We suggest 
 that you contact any branch of Ulster Bank, where our staff will 
 be happy to advise you. 
 
PRINCIPAL EXCLUSIONS
 
 
	 
	 
- Suicide, self-inflicted injury, pre-existing physical defect 
 	or infirmity
 	
- Accident or death whilst under the influence of intoxicating liquor 
 	or drugs
 	
- Pregnancy, childbirth, miscarriage or abortion 
 	
- War risks
 	
- Aviation other than when travelling solely as a passenger on licensed 
 	passenger carrying services.
	 
	
 
CARD PROTECTION PLAN 
 
	Your card protection policy is provided by Card Protection Plan Limited 
	(CPP), who arrange direct cover for you, as your agent, with ACE Insurance SA — 
	NV, an authorised insurance company which has chosen English law to govern 
	your policy. Benefits include cover of up to £1000 against unauthorised use of 
	cards provided loss is reported to CPP within 24 hours of discovery (unlimited 
	cover thereafter); Emergency cash advance, hotel bill payment and travel ticket 
	replacement available subject to status (loans repayable within 28 days). Other 
	benefits include change of address notification service, lost luggage retrieval 
	and cover against cash lost at the same time as cards, plus cover against costs 
	of replacing handbags, wallets, driving licences and passports lost at the same 
	time as cards and a 30 day money back guarantee. All benefits, terms and 
	conditions are detailed in an insurance policy pack forwarded on acceptance of 
	your proposal. Complaints should be addressed to CPP at PO Box 353, York 
	YO24 4YS. If your complaint is unresolved, you can then take this to the 
	Insurer. If you remain dissatisfied, you may then refer your complaint to the 
	Financial Ombudsman Service, South Quay Plaza, Marsh Wall, London E14 9SR.
	
 The Bank observes a strict duty of confidentiality about your financial 
 affairs. We will not disclose details of your accounts or your name 
 and address to anyone else, other than to any confidentially appointed 
 agents acting on our behalf, except in the four cases permitted 
 by law. These are: 
 
	 
	
- where we are legally compelled to do so;
 	
- where there’s a duty to the public to disclose;
 	
- where our legitimate interests require disclosure;
 	
- where disclosure is made at your request or with your consent.
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
