
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investors Guide 
	
	
	
	
	 Key Concepts
	 Investment Categories
	 Investment Philosophy
	 Glossary of Terms
	 FAQs
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 A B C 
 D E F 
 G H I J 
 K L M N 
 O P Q R 
 S T U V 
 W X Y Z
 
 
 
 
 
A
 
 Annual Yield 
 Annual Yield is the amount of Interest or Dividends 
 paid over a year, usually calculated as a percentage 
 of the Principal invested. 
 
 Appreciation 
 The increase in the price of currencies or shares, that 
 are traded in some markets. 
 
 Asset Allocation 
 Asset Allocation is a systematic approach to investing 
 among different categories of investments. It attempts 
 to determine the best way to divide Investable Assets 
 into the three main Asset Classes: Cash & Equivalents, 
 Fixed Income, and Stocks. Asset Allocation is one type 
 of Diversification. 
 
 Asset Allocation Funds 
 Asset Allocation Funds are generally differentiated 
 by the way they allocate their investments between these 
 asset classes. Relatively conservative funds tend to 
 place a larger portion of their investments in asset 
 classes with historically lower risk/lower return potential. 
 Conversely, aggressive funds tend to place a greater 
 emphasis on asset classes with higher risk/higher return 
 potential. 
 
 Asset Classes 
 Asset Classes are categories of investments that offer 
 differing levels of overall risk and return. The three 
 main Asset Classes are: Cash & Equivalents, Fixed Income, 
 and Stocks. Cash & Equivalents often offer liquidity 
 and safety of Principal, but with the lowest expected 
 return. Fixed Income assets can provide income, and 
 generally involve a moderate degree of risk to Principal. 
 Stocks can offer the best potential for growth, but 
 also can carry the greatest risk. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B
 
 Bank Deposits 
 Bank Deposits include money invested in insured bank 
 accounts such as Checking Accounts, Savings Accounts, 
 Bank Money Market Accounts, fixed period-Time Deposits 
 and Certificates of Deposit. 
 
 Bond Funds 
 Bond Funds are Mutual Funds that invest primarily in 
 Bonds. They provide Diversification by investing in 
 a variety of Bonds according to guidelines set in the 
 funds' Prospectuses. Bond Funds are usually categorised 
 by the types of Bonds they invest in, for example: government 
 Bond Funds, corporate Bond Funds, international Bond 
 Funds, and municipal Bond Funds. As with individual 
 Bonds, the value of Bond Funds typically falls when 
 Interest Rates rise, and rises when Interest Rates fall. 
 Also a Bond Fund's dividends will vary. Bond Funds are 
 not insured, and involve risk to Principal. 
 
 Bonds 
 Bonds are debt securities issued by companies or government 
 entities. Bonds represent promises by the companies 
 or government entities to pay interest at specified 
 rates on specified dates, and to redeem the Bonds on 
 a specified date. Bond values typically fall when Interest 
 Rates rise, and rise when Interest Rates fall. Bonds 
 involve risk to Principal. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C
 
 Cac40 
 The Paris Stock Exchange Index, comprised of the 40 
 most frequently traded stocks on the Paris Market. 
 
 Capital Gain 
 An increase in the value of a stock due to the difference 
 between the purchasing price and the higher selling 
 value of a stock. 
 
 Capital Loss 
 A decrease in the value of a stock due to a difference 
 between the purchasing price and the lower selling price. 
 
 
 Cash & Equivalents Asset Class 
 The Cash & Equivalents Asset Class includes assets that 
 are readily convertible to cash. Examples include bank 
 accounts such as Current, Savings and Money Market Accounts. 
 Other examples of Cash & Equivalents include Money Market 
 Mutual Funds, Treasury Bills, and Commercial Paper. 
 These investments are typically low risk, but are not 
 insured and involve risk to Principal. 
 
 Commercial Paper 
 Commercial Paper is short-term debt of a company, generally 
 paying money market Interest Rates and having a maturity 
 of 270 days or less. Investment grade Commercial Paper 
 is typically a low risk investment, but involves risk 
 to Principal. 
 
 Common Stock 
 See Stock. 
 
 Consumer Price Index 
 The Consumer Price Index is one of the government's 
 official ways of measuring the general level of inflation. 
 The CPI represents the cost of a basket of goods and 
 services used by the average consumer. The annual percentage 
 change in the value of this index is one way of measuring 
 the annual inflation rate. 
 
See also Inflation Rate. 
 
 Corporate Bonds 
 Corporate Bonds are debt securities issued by a corporation. 
 Like all Bonds, their value typically falls when Interest 
 Rates rise, and rises when Interest Rates fall. They 
 involve risk to Principal. 
 
 Coupon Rate 
 Coupon Rate is the yearly payment a bond issuer promises 
 to pay a bondholder during the life of a Bond, expressed 
 as a percentage of the Bond's face value. For example, 
 a bond with a face value of £1000, which pays interest 
 of £40 twice a year, has a Coupon Rate of 8%. 
 
 Current Account 
 Current Accounts are Bank Deposits which usually allow 
 unlimited withdrawals by check, ATM, or transfer. Some 
 Current Accounts pay interest, but the rate is often 
 lower than that paid on Savings Accounts or Bank Money 
 Market Accounts. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D
 
 Defined Benefit Pension Plan 
 A pension plan, which is a traditional Defined Benefit 
 Plan, provides a pre-determined monthly retirement benefit 
 to an employee based on the employee's earnings history, 
 years of service and age. The cost of these plans is 
 generally funded by Employer Contributions into a trust 
 fund. 
 
 Defined Contribution Plan 
 A Defined Contribution Plan is a retirement plan whose 
 benefits depend on the accumulated value of an employee's 
 accounts. There is no set formula for determining the 
 employee's future benefits for planning purposes. Depending 
 on the specific plan type, the employer makes annual 
 contributions into the plan which may be mandatory or 
 discretionary. Some plans may allow employees to make 
 their own contributions into the plan as well. Earnings 
 can grow Tax Deferred until the employee begins withdrawals, 
 generally at retirement. 
 
 Diversification 
 Diversification is the investment strategy of putting 
 your money into a number of different investments in 
 order to reduce overall Investment Risk. The goal is 
 that losses in one or more investments may be offset 
 by gains in others. 
 
 Dividend 
 A Dividend is a payment distributed to shareholders 
 at times and in amounts voted on by a company's (or 
 a Mutual Fund's) board of directors. The Dividend may 
 be in cash, in more shares of the company's Stock, or 
 in shares of another company it owns. 
 
 Dow Jones 
 The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) index, which reflects 
 the movement of the world's first stock market. It is 
 composed of the 32 most traded stocks of the NYSE. Currently 
 there are three more Dow Jones Indices. The Dow Jones 
 Industrial Average (DJIA) which is composed of 30 industrial 
 stocks. The Dow Jones Transport Average (DJTA) composed 
 of 20 stocks belonging to the transport industry (by 
 rail, land or air) and finally DJUA (Dow Jones Utility 
 Average), which is composed of 15 stocks belonging to 
 the electrical and gas sectors. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E
 
 ECU 
 European unit of account - now defunct. Its value was 
 given by the weighted average of the currencies of the 
 countries belonging to the European Union. This unit 
 of account ceased to exist on January 1 1999, when it 
 was replaced by the Euro. 
 
 Emerging Market 
 The market of a developing country with high growth 
 expectations.
 
 Employer Contributions 
 Employer Contributions are monies added to a retirement 
 plan by an employer for the benefit of an individual 
 employee. 
 
 Equities 
 The term "Equities" is generally used interchangeably 
 with the term "Stocks". 
 
 Euro 
 Name of the European currency, agreed to by the European 
 Council in the Madrid Summit. It replaces the ECU. 
 
 Exchange 
 Cover A currency trading operation, the objective of 
 which is to protect a future position against any fluctuation 
 in the exchange rate. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F
 
 Fixed Income Asset Class 
 The Fixed Income Asset Class includes Bonds, other income-producing 
 debt securities, and bank Certificates of Deposit due 
 in more than one year. Generally, they constitute a 
 promise by the borrower (issuer of the security or bank) 
 to pay the investor a specified amount of interest and 
 to return the Principal at a specified period of time. 
 Citibank divides the Fixed Income Asset Class into the 
 following Sub-Asset Class categories: Long Term Government 
 and Corporate Bonds and International Bonds. 
 
 FIAMM 
 See Money Market Funds. 
 
 Fluctuations 
 Continuous ups and downs in markets. 
 
 FT indices 
 The FT Index is the FT Ordinary Share Index, also known 
 as the 30 Share Index. This started in 1935 at 100, 
 and is based on the prices of 30 leading industrial 
 and commercial shares. There are a number of other FT 
 indices, including the FTSE 100 Index which is composed 
 of the largest one hundred stocks. 
 
 Foreign Exchange Rate 
 The exchange relationship between two different currencies. 
 It is the number of units of a national currency which 
 can be exchanged for a unit of a foreign currency. 
 
 Future Pounds 
 The term Future Pounds is used in financial planning 
 to indicate that the future cost of a specific goal, 
 product or service has been adjusted to reflect projected 
 increases in prices over time due to inflation. 
 
 Future Value 
 Future Value is the expected value of an account, security, 
 investment, lump sum of money, or a series of payments, 
 at a specific time in the future. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
G
 
 Guaranteed Funds 
 Those investment funds where the principal and a minimum 
 return (which depends on the market they are invested 
 in) are guaranteed. 
 
 Global Investment Funds 
 Investment funds which seek opportunities in any organised 
 market of the world. Their assets are invested and diversified 
 in different currencies and international stock exchanges. 
 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I
 
 Ibex 35 
 The Spanish Stock Exchange Index which is composed of 
 the top 35 stocks of the Spanish Market. 
 
 Indices 
 Indices are statistical measures of change in the economy 
 or financial markets. A stock index, for instance, would 
 measure change in selected stock prices. 
 
 Inflation Rate 
 The Inflation Rate is the rate of increase in the price 
 of goods and services over a given period of time. The 
 most generally used measure of inflation is the Consumer 
 Price Index, which is calculated monthly by the National 
 Statistics Institute. Other indices are available which 
 help measure price increases for specific goods or services. 
 In determining what inflation rate assumption to use 
 when planning for a future goal, it is always a good 
 idea to look at historical inflation rates over a long 
 period, preferably a 20 or 30 year period. 
 
 Inflation Risk 
 See Purchasing Power Risk. 
 
 Interest Rate 
 The Interest Rate is the percentage of a deposit that 
 a bank pays annually to the depositor in return for 
 use of the depositor's money, the percentage of a loan 
 that a borrower pays annually to the lender in return 
 for use of the lender's money, or the percentage of 
 a Bond's face value that the issuer pays. 
 
 International Bonds 
 International Bonds are usually issued by foreign governments 
 or corporations. Their value typically falls when local 
 Interest Rates rise, and rises when local Interest Rates 
 fall. In addition, the value of International Bonds 
 is also subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange 
 currency rates. 
 
 Investable Assets 
 Investable Assets is the sum of money an investor has 
 available to invest, or has already invested, including 
 money invested in retirement accounts/plans. Citibank 
 does not include Collectibles, Real Estate Investments 
 and Business Interests in Investable Assets. 
 
 Investment Attitudes 
 Investment Attitudes are the requirements and beliefs 
 of an investor regarding risk to Principal, return potential, 
 and other factors that may influence their willingness 
 to make a particular investment. 
 
 Investment Planning 
 Investment Planning is the process of determining how 
 to invest current assets and future savings based on 
 your financial goals, your attitude towards risk, your 
 current financial position and your tax status. 
 
 Investment Risk 
 Investment Risk is the potential for fluctuation in 
 the value of an investment, which could result in loss 
 of Principal. Some causes of Investment Risk are: general 
 market fluctuations, industry-specific market fluctuations, 
 trends in Interest Rates and foreign exchange rates, 
 company specific factors, and others. Higher Risk is 
 usually associated with the potential for higher long-term 
 rates of return. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
L
 
 Liquidity Need 
 Liquidity Need refers to the level of importance an 
 investor places in the ability to convert investments 
 to cash without a substantial loss of Principal. 
 
 Long-Term Government and Corporate Bonds 
 Long-Term Government and Corporate Bonds are issued 
 by Governments or corporations respectively, with maturities 
 usually ranging from 10 to 30 years. Like all Bonds, 
 their value typically falls when Interest Rates rise 
 and rises when Interest Rates fall. In addition, the 
 longer a Bond's maturity, the more sensitive it is to 
 changes in Interest Rates. Since the price of Long-Term 
 Bonds tend to be less stable than that of intermediate-term 
 bonds, Long-Term Bonds tend to offer higher returns 
 to compensate investors for the instability. 
 
 Long Term Time Horizon 
 See Time Horizon. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M
 
 Madrid Stock Exchange Index 
 The most representative index of the Spanish Stock Market 
 due to the trading volume it is able to attract. 
 
 Market Risk 
 See Investment Risk. 
 
 Mixed Investment Funds of Fixed Income 
 Investment funds with between 75% and 100% of their 
 portfolio invested in Securities (Short and Long-Term 
 Bonds as well as Commercial Paper). 
 
 Mixed Investment Funds of Equity Securities 
 Investment Funds with between 25% and 75% of their portfolio 
 invested in Equities. 
 
 Money Assets 
 Monetary assets are those with total liquidity, i.e. 
 immediate cash equivalents. Money Funds Those funds 
 whose portfolios are made up of short-term financial 
 assets with high liquidity (Treasury Bills, Commercial 
 Paper etc). 
 
 Money Market 
 The market in which financial instruments with high 
 liquidity and very short maturity are traded. 
 
 Money Market Funds 
 Funds whose assets have to be invested in short term 
 securities. Due to the guarantee provided by them, they 
 are almost equivalent to cash. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
 
 Nikkei 
 The Tokyo Stock Exchange Index, which has a substantial 
 impact in the international markets due to the importance 
 of the Japanese economy. It is composed of the country's 
 top 225 stocks. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P
 
 Pension Funds 
 Funds launched to meet pension plan requirements. Their 
 management and custody is delegated to the management 
 and depositary entities of pension plans. They offer 
 fiscal bonuses. 
 
 Pension Plan 
 See Defined Benefit Plan, Defined Contribution Plan. 
 
 
 Portfolio Management 
 The aim of Portfolio Management is to achieve the maximum 
 return from a portfolio which has been delegated to 
 be managed by an individual manager or financial institution. 
 The manager has to balance the parameters which define 
 a good investment i.e. security, liquidity and return. 
 The goal is to obtain the highest return for the client 
 of the managed portfolio. 
 
 Present Value 
 Present Value is the current value of an account, security, 
 investment, lump sum of money, or a future series of 
 payments. 
 
 Principal 
 In general, Principal refers to the amount invested 
 in a security. In the case of a loan or mortgage, Principal 
 may refer to the remaining balance of debt. 
 
 Principal Risk 
 See Investment Risk. Professional Management Professional 
 Management is the practice of having financial professionals 
 invest money or monitor securities and returns on behalf 
 of individual investors, investment companies, or institutions. 
 
 
 Promissory Note 
 A document which contains a written commitment to pay 
 a certain amount of money in a fixed period of time. 
 
 
 Prospectus 
 For Mutual Funds, a Prospectus is the official document 
 that describes the fund and must be provided to all 
 investors. It contains information on such subjects 
 as the fund's investment objectives, policies, services 
 and fees. You should read it carefully before you invest. 
 
 
 Purchasing Power Risk 
 Purchasing Power Risk, or Inflation Risk, is the risk 
 that the return on an asset will not exceed the rate 
 of Inflation. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R
 
 Rate of Return 
 The Rate of Return is the gain or loss generated from 
 an investment over a specified period of time. It is 
 also referred to as total return, and it includes the 
 change in the value of a security plus all Interest, 
 Dividends and capital gains distributions generated 
 by holding that security. 
 
 Reimbursement 
 The return of funds back to an investor. 
 
 Reimbursement Fee 
 The fee which is paid to the management entity of the 
 collective investment institutions due to the reimbursement 
 of investment fund shares. 
 
 Retirement Planning 
 Retirement Planning is the process of establishing a 
 retirement income goal and gathering information about 
 your potential sources of retirement income. The information 
 is then used to help determine if your projected retirement 
 cash flow is adequate to fund your needs. 
 
 Return Expectations 
 Return Expectations are returns an investor hopes to 
 realise from investments. Desire for returns must be 
 weighed against other factors, such as concern for safety, 
 liquidity, capital preservation and income. 
 
 Risk 
 The danger of a financial loss that the investor must 
 take into consideration when investing. A high level 
 risk investment means that the investor seeks higher 
 returns to compensate the risk, and vice versa. The 
 return level usually runs parallel to the risk level. 
 
 
 Risk Averse 
 Risk Averse describes an investor who has a low level 
 of tolerance to possible loss of Principal through investing. 
 This investor is willing to accept lower levels of expected 
 return in order to avoid possible investment losses. 
 
 
 Risk Tolerance 
 Risk Tolerance is an investor's comfort level with fluctuations 
 in the value of investments, and the potential for loss. 
 
 
Back 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S
 
 Settlement Date 
 The Settlement Date is the date on which you must pay 
 for your securities (if you have purchased them), or 
 the date on which you are paid (if you have sold them). 
 This is often several days after your order to purchase 
 or sell securities has been executed. Generally, you 
 do not begin to earn interest on a bond that you have 
 purchased or dividends on a stock until the Settlement 
 Date. 
 
 Shareholders 
 Shareholders are owners of a particular company's Stock 
 or of a Mutual Fund. The unit of ownership is called 
 a share. 
 
 Short-Term Investments 
 Short-Term Investments are generally investments with 
 maturities of less than one year. 
 
 Short-Term Time Horizon 
 See Time Horizon. 
 
 Standard & Poor 
 One of the most well-known indices of the New York Stock 
 Exchange. 
 
 Stock 
 The term "Stock" generally refers to shares of Common 
 Stock. Each share of Common Stock represents a share 
 of ownership in a company. The price of a Stock generally 
 represents investor expectations about the future profitability 
 or future value of the company, and may also be influenced 
 by general economic and market conditions. Stock involves 
 risk to Principal. 
 
 Stock Funds 
 Stock Funds are Mutual Funds that invest primarily in 
 Stocks. They offer Diversification by investing in a 
 number of different companies or industries, according 
 to guidelines set in the funds' Prospectuses. Stock 
 Funds are usually categorised by the types of Stocks 
 they invest in, for example: Growth Funds, Small Capitalisation 
 Funds and International Funds. Stock Funds involve risk 
 to Principal. 
 
 Stocks Asset Class
 The Stocks Asset Class includes Common Stock and Stock 
 Funds. Citibank divides the Stocks Asset Class into 
 the following Sub-Asset Class categories: Large Capitalisation 
 Stocks, Small Capitalisation Stocks, and International 
 Stocks. Stocks involve risk to Principal, including 
 possible loss of the amount invested. 
 
 Sub-Asset Class 
 Sub-Asset classes are a more in-depth classification 
 of the general Asset Class categories. Examples of Stocks 
 Sub-Asset Classes are: Large Capitalisation Stocks, 
 Small Capitalisation Stocks, and International Stocks. 
 
 
 Subscription Fee 
 A fee given by a management entity of the collective 
 investment institutions to a third party for the subscription 
 of investment funds. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
T
 
 Taxable Profit 
 The profit which remains after applying all deductions 
 on the results of the fiscal year. It also includes 
 any deduction, exemption or fiscal bonus. 
 
 Time Horizon 
 Time Horizon is the amount of time an investor is willing, 
 or able, to hold an investment. Generally, the longer 
 one holds certain types of investments, the more likely 
 it is that there will be a positive return. Citibank 
 considers an investment Time Horizon of less than three 
 years to be a short-term Time Horizon, and a time of 
 three years or longer to be a long-term Time Horizon. 
 
 
 Today's Pounds 
 The term Today's Pounds is used in financial planning 
 to indicate that the cost of a goal, product or service 
 is expressed in terms of what it costs today, and not 
 what it might cost in the future. 
 
 Treasury Bill 
 A Treasury Bill is a discounted US financial asset issued 
 by the US government with maturities of 18 months or 
 less. Like any government debt, the investment in Treasury 
 Bills also has fiscal bonuses for those purchase them. 
 
 
Back 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W
 
 Win (to) the Market 
 The management of a portfolio which outperforms 
 the market's index. 
 
Back 
 to top
 
 
 
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
