
 
 
HSBC - Stakeholder Pensions
 
"100%">
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome 
 
 
 
 Tell 
 me about Stakeholder Pensions 
 
 
 
 
 The 
 benefits of a Stakeholder Pension 
 
 
 
 My 
 obligations 
 
 
 
 Frequently 
 asked questions 
 
 
 
 Which 
 service is available to me? 
 
 
 
 Stakeholder
 Pension
 self-service 
 
 
 
 Jargon 
 buster 
 
 
 
 Important 
 notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell me about Stakeholder Pensions
 
Below is our guide to Stakeholder Pensions. It covers 
 everything you need to set up and run a Stakeholder Pension scheme 
 for your employees.
 
To go to a particular area of interest, click 
 the relevant link below. If you would like to print out the whole 
 page, click the "print" button to the right.
 
 
For details of how you and your staff can benefit 
 from a Stakeholder Pension, click here.
 
Reason for introduction
 Flexibility
	 Contributions
 Charges
 Regulation
 Eligibility
 Selecting a Stakeholder Pension scheme
 Contributing to the scheme
 Payroll deduction
 Forwarding employee contributions taken from payroll
 Scheme registration
 
Reason for introduction 
 
 The Government announced its intention to reform pensions from April 
 2001. A full copy of the Government's document (published on 25th 
 May 2000) can be viewed by visiting the Department of Social Security 
 website, www.dss.gov.uk 
 . This document outlines the key proposals to change the face of 
 pensions. 
 
A new simple, flexible and low cost pension will be 
 introduced known as a Stakeholder 
 Pension. The low charges and product simplicity should 
 make retirement planning more attractive and easier for many people. 
 Individuals will normally be able to take the pension benefits built 
 up from a Stakeholder Pension in addition to State 
 pension and other pension benefits. 
 Flexibility
 
 
- Stakeholder Pensions are low cost and flexible 
 retirement savings plans. 
 
- Contributions from as little as £20 gross 
 can be made, whether this is a regular or single payment. 
 
- Your employees will be able to stop and 
 start contributions whenever it suits them without charge. 
 
- Your employees will be able to transfer 
 their Stakeholder Pensions between Stakeholder Pension scheme 
 providers. 
 
- Contributions of up to £3,600 gross 
 per person each year can be paid without any earnings. 
 
- Contributions over £3,600 gross 
 will also be allowed. The maximum levels will depend on age and 
 earnings, as with current personal pension plans. Please see the 
 table below for details.
 
 
Contributions 
 The Inland Revenue sets contributions levels 
 based on age and earnings. These levels are shown in the table below. 
 These are the total contributions that can be made by the employer 
 and the employee. 
 
 
 Inland Revenue limits on contributions 
 into a personal pension per tax year. 
 
 
 
 
Age 35* and under
 
 Age 36* to 45 
 
 Age 46* to 50
 
 Age 51* to 55 
 
 Age 56* to 60 
 
 Age 61* to 74 
 
 17.5% 
 of net 
 relevant earnings 
 up to £91,800** 
 20% of net relevant earnings 
 up to £91,800** 
 25% of net relevant earnings 
 up to £91,800** 
 30% of net relevant earnings
 up to £91,800** 
 35% of net relevant earnings 
 up to £91,800** 
 40% of net relevant earnings 
 up to £91,800** 
 
 
 
*Age at beginning of the tax year. 
 **The earnings cap for 2000/2001 tax year. This may change in the 
 future. 
 Charges 
 
 
- The only charge that can be taken from a Stakeholder Pension 
 is an annual management charge. 
 This is limited to a maximum of 1% of the pension fund each year. 
 
 
 Regulation 
 
 
- The Occupational Pensions Regulatory 
 Authority (OPRA) will regulate the operation of all schemes 
 and maintain a register of them. Employers responsible for offering 
 a Stakeholder Pension will also need to ensure the Stakeholder 
 Pension they have designated for their employees is continually 
 registered with OPRA. 
 
- The Financial Services Authority (FSA) 
 will regulate the marketing of schemes. 
 
 
 Eligibility 
 
 
- To take out a Stakeholder Pension, your employees must be resident 
 and ordinarily resident in the UK. 
 
- They must be under the age of 75. There is no minimum age. 
 
 
- Stakeholder Pensions may be held at the same time as other 
 Stakeholder Pensions, Personal Pension 
 Plans, Self-Invested Personal Pensions and Retirement 
 Annuity Contracts as long as total contributions do not 
 exceed the relevant limits. 
 
- Employees who are members of occupational 
 pension schemes can contribute up to £3,600 gross 
 per year into a Stakeholder 
 Pension provided they earn less than £30,000 per year. 
 Controlling 
 directors cannot contribute to a Stakeholder 
 Pension.
 
 
 Selecting a Stakeholder Pension scheme 
 
 
 
- If you are setting up a Stakeholder Pension 
 scheme it will be your responsibility to choose one which all 
 eligible employees will be able to join. You will however, be 
 required to consult with your employees (or their representatives) 
 on the choice of Stakeholder 
 Pension provider, although the final decision will 
 ultimately be yours. 
 
 
 
- The process of selecting a scheme should 
 be neutral, with you making enough information available about 
 the Stakeholder Pension for employees to make an informed decision. 
 Do not provide them with any advice on retirement planning. Please 
 note that even after you have selected your Stakeholder Pension 
 your employees will not have to join the scheme you are offering. 
 
 
 Contributing to the scheme
 
 
- Once you have chosen your scheme you will 
 need to decide whether you want to make a contribution on your 
 employees' behalf, and if so how much the contribution will be. 
 This is a major decision for your business but there are benefits 
 in doing do. Click here to find out 
 about these benefits.
 
 
 Payroll deduction
 
 
- You must have a payroll deduction facility in operation if 
 the employee wishes to make contributions direct from their wages. 
 This will involve collecting the employee's contributions from 
 their net basic pay and paying the money into a bank account nominated 
 by yourself for the Stakeholder Pension provider to collect by 
 Direct Debit. It is, however, up to each individual employee how 
 they make their own contributions. They can decide to make these 
 by Direct Debit. 
 
 
 
- Where employee contributions are deducted from payroll, you 
 are obliged to make changes to contributions (increase, decrease 
 or stop) requested by the employee, at least every six months. 
 
 
 Note: if an employee requests a change to their contributions, 
 you can decline to make that change for up to six months after 
 the previous change. If you decline a change you must inform the 
 employee in writing that you are not complying with their request 
 and inform them when the change will be made. You can, however, 
 accept employee changes to their contributions as frequently as 
 you like. 
 
 
 
- Employees electing to make contributions to their Stakeholder 
 Pension from payroll will need to provide you with a form of authority. 
 HSBC can provide a copy of this form for you to pass to your employees. 
 The payroll deduction authority will provide you with sufficient 
 information from each of your employees to set them up on the 
 internet. 
 
 
 
- If you choose HSBC to administer your Stakeholder Pension, 
 we will provide you with an online schedule of the payments that 
 are due to be made by you and your employees, ten days before 
 your business account is due to be debited. You will then be required 
 to authorise online that this payment can be taken. 
 
 
 
- For example, if you are paying monthly you will need to authorise 
 the amount we take each month prior to the date the payment is 
 due for collection. You will need to ensure that the correct amounts 
 are taken from your employees and the exact amount of money is 
 available to be debited from your nominated business account. 
 
 
 
 
- The payment of contributions should be authorised so that payment 
 can be taken by HSBC no later than the 19th of the month following 
 payroll deduction. 
 
 Forwarding employee contributions taken from payroll
 
 
- Where you deduct employees' contributions from their salary 
 and/or have agreed to make contributions on behalf on an employee, 
 these will need to be sent to the Stakeholder 
 Pension provider within the timescale set out by OPRA. 
 This is 19 days after the end of the month in which the contribution 
 was collected from an employee or the month in which you agreed 
 to make a contribution on behalf of an employee. 
 
 
 
- Failure to do so may result in legal proceedings being brought 
 against the business by OPRA. For 
 example, if a payroll deduction is made on 28 March, you will 
 need to have sent the payment onto the Stakeholder Pension provider 
 by the 19 April. 
 
 Scheme registration
 
 
- You will also be responsible for checking that the Stakeholder 
 Pension scheme provider you have selected is registered 
 with OPRA. Once the scheme has been selected you will also be 
 responsible for checking on a regular basis that the scheme is 
 still registered as a Stakeholder Pension scheme. 
 
 
 
- The HSBC Life (UK) Limited Stakeholder Pension Scheme is registered 
 with OPRA. 
 
 
 
 
- OPRA will maintain a register confirming which product providers 
 are authorised to conduct Stakeholder Pension business. This can 
 be viewed on their website www.opra.gov.uk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Am 
 I obliged to offer my employees a Stakeholder Pension scheme? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Which 
 Stakeholder Pension service is available for my business? 
 
 
 
 
We recommend that you read our important 
 notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
