
	Lloyds TSB - Supplier terms & conditions
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Home Legal About us Our Services Security Accessibility Contact us 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Legal
	
	site terms and conditions Information about us Banking important information Borrowing important information Saving & Investing important information Our services important information Supplier terms & conditions
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Asset range 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	The offers provided by each supplier (Active Consultancy Ltd, Thistle Hotels, Hertz, 
Laithwaites, Hoverspeed, Country Cottages in England, Ireland, Wales, Scotland, France and Italy) are subject to: 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	the supplier's standard conditions, which are available on request from the supplier 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	these general conditions: 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	All details are correct as at 1 May 2002. Some calls may be monitored and recorded to ensure your instructions have been carried out correctly and to help improve quality of service. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Eligibility and payment
1. You must be a holder of a Lloyds TSB Asset/Gold/Platinum credit card. All payments must be made with the relevant credit cards. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Restrictions
(a) All bookings are subject to availability.
(b) Lloyds TSB and the supplier reserve the right to amend or withdraw the offer. This will not affect any bookings made.
(c) The offer may not be combined with any other special offer or discounts from the supplier. Lloyds TSB recommends that you purchase suitable travel insurance if the offer involves travel. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	and these conditions for each offer:
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
Active Consultancy Ltd - summer days out
1. Offer Definition
(a) Free and two for the price of one activities/attractions with summer days out voucher directory. (b) Two for the price of one: If two people attend the activity session at the same time and one person surrenders the summer days out voucher they can undertake the activity for free when the other person pays the club’s/centres/attraction’s full activity session tariff. 
(c) Free activity: The summer days out voucher is surrendered to claim the free activity. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	2. Redemption Period
Vouchers can be ordered until 31 August 2002. Vouchers valid until 31 December 2002. (a) Activity sessions are provided on a booking basis in accordance with centre availability. (b) Some activities may be considered dangerous. (c) Do not take part in any activity if you are unsure whether you have the necessary level of fitness or if you are suffering from a medical condition or injury. (d) If in doubt consult your doctor before participating. (e) Lloyds TSB Bank plc and its agencies disclaim all responsibility for any consequences arising from taking part in any of the activities set out in this promotion. (f) If necessary, Lloyds TSB Bank plc reserves the right to change or replace some of the centres. 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	3. Restrictions
(a) Some clubs/centres/attractions may open on a seasonal basis. (b) The vouchers are only acceptable at activity/attraction centres listed in the Voucher Directory and participants contract directly with activity centres responsible for the activity chosen. You are advised to check the terms and conditions of any clubs and insurance cover before taking part. (c) Some activities may have minimum age limits, weight restrictions and may require doctor’s consent to participate; please check with the individual club/centres. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Click here for the full list of summer days out locations. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
> back to top
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Thistle Hotels
1. Offer definition
(a) Save at least 60% off the published Leisure Break brochure price on weekend hotel breaks for 2 adults staying for a minimum 2 consecutive nights sharing a twin or double standard room on a Friday, Saturday and Sunday including breakfast at participating hotels on both mornings. Children under 16 stay free if sharing a room with 2 adults, under 6’s stay and eat breakfast free, 6-15 year olds stay free but pay £5 per breakfast (one child per adult, subject to availability of suitable rooms). Children’s breakfast must be purchased at the time of booking. (b) Free bottle of wine: If you spend £17.50 or more per couple, on your evening meal (food only) in the hotel restaurant, you will receive a free bottle of specially selected red or white wine. Single guests spending £8.75 will receive half a bottle of wine. The wine offer is available on both nights of stay. (c) Half price evening meal (Gold and Platinum cardholders only). If you spend £35 or more per couple (£17.50 or more for single guests), on an evening meal (food only) on only one night of stay, you will pay only half price. This offer can be used in addition to the free wine offer (Gold and Platinum cardholders only). 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	2. Redemption period
This offer must be booked by 24 March 2003 and taken by 31 March 2003. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	3. Conditions
(a) A maximum of 2 rooms can be booked per reservation at participating hotels with your Lloyds TSB Asset/Gold/Platinum credit card over the same dates. Single rooms are available at selected hotels at no single supplement. (b) Bookings must be made on the given telephone number at least 7 days prior to visit. You will be sent a booking confirmation along with your wine and meal vouchers (Gold and Platinum cardholders only). (c) Payment of meal must be made by a Lloyds TSB Asset/Gold/Platinum credit card. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	4. Restrictions
(a) Offer is subject to promotional room availability and applies to new bookings only. (b) Offer is not valid for the collection of frequent flyer/ loyalty awards. (c) Half price evening meal (Gold and Platinum cardholders only) and wine offer subject to table availability. (d) Meal offer (Gold and Platinum cardholders only) does not apply at the Thistle Victoria and is not available on Saturday nights at Thistle St. Albans, Audley’s Wood, Canizarro House and New Hall. (e) Wine offer does not apply at New Hall and Thistle Victoria. (f) Thistle Piccadilly does not have a restaurant therefore guests staying in the Thistle Piccadilly can dine at the Thistle Trafalgar Square close by. (g) Both food and wine offers exclude room service. (h) Offers cannot be used in conjunction with any other wine/food promotion except the Lloyds TSB credit card wine or food offers. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	5. Seven day availability of standard offer
In addition, the standard offer detailed above is available during the following periods:
27 May-6 June 2002, 1-25 July 2002; Provinces only, 1-29 August 2002, 21-24 October 2002, 19-31 December 2002 inclusive. During this period cardholders can
stay longer than 2 nights, extra nights will be charged at the reduced rate.
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
> back to top
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Hertz
1. Offer definition
15% off Hertz UK non pre-paid, non-promotional car rentals. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	2. Redemption period
Car rental offer available until 31 December 2002. All reservations to be taken by 31 January 2003. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	3. Conditions
(a)The appropriate CDP number (according to card type) must be quoted to take part in the offer. (b) This offer is valid for any duration of hire, for any group of car, and is applicable to any day of the week. (c) Bookings must be made on the given number at least 24 hours before the rental period is due to start. (d) This offer is subject to availability and standard Hertz blackout periods. (e) Hertz terms and conditions apply. (f) Payment must be made by a Lloyds TSB Asset/Gold/Platinum credit card. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	4. Restrictions
(a) All drivers must be over 25 years of age and have held a licence for at least one full year. (b) Hertz UK reserve the right to withdraw the offer at any time without prior notice. (c) Offer excludes promotional and pre-paid rates. Offer applies to car rental element of transaction only. Other costs such as Location Service Charge and child seat hire, for example, are additional and non-discountable. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
> back to top
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Laithwaites
1. Offer definition
a) Asset cardholders: Save over £31 on 12 top estate wines plus over £27 of wine gifts free.
b) Gold and Platinum cardholders: 3 bottles of Gold medal claret free plus a £27.69 saving on 12 top estate wines. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	2. Redemption period
This offer is valid until 31 July 2002. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	3. Conditions
(a) If the cardholder is not happy with their purchase in any way they may return it to Laithwaites and receive a full refund. (b) UK delivery only, excluding the Channel Islands. One case per household. Postage and packaging is £4.99 per delivery address. (c) Wines will be delivered within 14 days, please allow a few extra days for the Scottish Islands, Highlands, Northern Ireland, Isle of Wight and Isle of Man. (d) In the event of a wine becoming unavailable a substitute of equal or greater value will be supplied. (e) Payment must be made by a Lloyds TSB Asset/Gold/Platinum credit card. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
> back to top
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Hoverspeed
1. Offer definition
(a) 25% discount off the standard published brochure price for Standard Return and 5 Day Return crossings for a car and up to 9 passengers valid on Hoverspeed routes Dover - Calais, Dover - Ostend and Newhaven - Dieppe. (b) A half price upgrade to First Class. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	2. Redemption Period
(a) The 25% discounted Standard Return and 5 Day Return must be booked by 31 December 2002 and travel to be completed by 13 January 2003. (b) The First Class upgrade is valid for bookings until 30 June 2002 and travel to be completed by 31 July 2002. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	3. Conditions
(a) Travel documents ordered on the given telephone number at least 7 days prior to travel will be sent out to customers. For reservations made within 7 days of travel, booking confirmation will be issued at the port. (b) Booking information can only be issued against full payment. (c) Bookings include all port charges. (d) Whilst reservations may be made for specific crossings, Hoverspeed does not necessarily undertake to carry passengers on the crossing for which a reservation was made. Reservations will be made on application subject to availability of space. (e) Cancellation fees - unused bookings are refundable, subject to a cancellation fee of 15% of the fare for cancellations made before the scheduled journey date. Cancellations made on or after the scheduled date are subject to a fee of 25% of the fare. (f) Payment must be made with a Lloyds TSB Asset/Gold/Platinum credit card. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	4. Restrictions 
The Newhaven - Dieppe route is closed from 30 September 2002 to March 2003. Dover-Ostend route will operate from 16 May 2002. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	> back to top 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Summer days out locations
Canoeing: Berkshire, Cambridgeshire, Cornwall, Cumbria, Gwynedd, Hertfordshire (2), Kirkcudbrightshire, Lancashire, Leicestershire, Merseyside, Norfolk, Northumberland, Pembrokeshire (2), Powys, Rothshire, Somerset (2), West Sussex, Worcestershire. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Golf: Aberdeenshire, Angus, Avon, Ayrshire, Berkshire, Cheshire, Cleveland, Derbyshire, East Sussex (2), Essex, Flintshire, Glasgow, Hertfordshire, Ireland, Kent, Leicestershire, Mid Glamorgan, North Somerset, North Yorkshire, Rutland, South Glamorgan, Staffordshire, Suffolk, Surrey, West Glamorgan, West Midlands West Sussex. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Health clubs: Bedfordshire, Belfast, Bristol (2), Cambridgeshire, Cheshire (3), Cleveland (2), County Antrim, County Derry, Derbyshire (2), Devon, Dorset (2), East Ayrshire, Essex (6), Greater Manchester (2), Greater London (7), Hampshire (3), Harrow, Hertfordshire (2), Humberside, Kent (2), Lancashire (4), Leicestershire (2), Lincolnshire (2) Liverpool, London (12), Manchester, Middlesex, Midlands, N Ireland (2), N Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, S Wales, Scotland (4), Shropshire (2), Somerset, South Yorkshire, Staffordshire (2), Suffolk (2), Surrey (5), Tyne & Wear, W Midlands (4), W Yorkshire, (2) Wales (4), West Midlands, (4) West Sussex, West Yorkshire (2), Wiltshire (2), Yorkshire (3). 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Historical monuments: Aberdeenshire (2), Angus, Argyll (2), Berwickshire, Caerphilly (3), Monmouthshire (3), Moray, Pembrokeshire, Perthshire (2), Roxburghshire, Scottish Borders, South Lanarkshire, Stirlingshire (3), Sutherland, Tayside (2)The Trossachs, Vale of Glamorgan. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Horse riding: Berkshire, Buckinghamshire (2), Cheshire, County Durham, Devon, Gloucestershire (2) Greater Manchester, Gwynedd (2), Kent, Lancashire, Merseyside, Monmouthshire, North Yorkshire, Northumberland, Pembrokeshire, South Yorkshire, Stirlingshire, Surrey (2), Warwickshire, West Midlands. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Ice-skating: Aberdeenshire, Ayrshire (5), Cheshire, Clwyd, Dumfries & Galloway (2), Essex, Humberside, Invernesshire, Kent, London (2), Lothian, Moray (2), Nottinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Perthshire, Renfrewshire, S Lanarkshire, Surrey, Tayside, W Midlands, W Yorkshire, Wiltshire. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mountain Biking: Aberdeenshire, Ceredigion, Devon (2), Essex, Gloucestershire, Hampshire (2), Isle Of Skye, Kirkudbrightshire, Manchester, Pembrokeshire, Perthshire, Powys (4), Somerset (2), Suffolk, West Sussex. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Paintballing: Buckinghamshire, Cheshire (2), Dorset, Essex (2), Hampshire, Hereford and Worcester, Hertfordshire (3), Kent, Lancashire, Leicestershire, North Yorkshire, Northumberland, Ormskirk, Shropshire, South Glamorgan, Surrey (3), Tyne and Wear, Warwickshire, West Midlands, West Sussex, West Yorkshire, Worcestershire. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Salsa: Basildon, Bath, Beaconsfield (Farnham Royal), Bishops Stortford, Bradford, Bristol, Canterbury, Cardiff, Chelmsford, Cheltenham, Coventry, Croydon, Edinburgh, Enfield, Glasgow, Gloucester, Harlow, Isle of Wight (Ryde), Leicester, Lincoln, London (6), Maidstone, Manchester, Norwich, Plymouth, Preston, Shrewsbury, Southampton, St.Helens, Tynemouth. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Swimming: Borders, Cheshire, Derbyshire (3), Dumfries and Galloway, Essex (2), Hampshire, Invernesshire, Kent, Lincolnshire, London, Merseyside, North Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire, Scotland, Somerset, South Yorkshire, Staffordshire, Strathclyde, Surrey (3), Warwickshire, West Sussex, Worcestershire. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Ten Pin Bowling: Aberdeenshire, Angus, Avon, Bedfordshire (2), Berkshire (2), Buckinghamshire, Cheshire (3), Derbyshire, Devon (3), Dorset (2), East Sussex, Essex (2), Gloucestershire, Greater Manchester (2), Gwent, Hampshire (2), Humberside, Kent, Lancashire (2), Leicestershire, London (2), Merseyside, Middlesex, Midlothian (2), North Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire, South Glamorgan, Staffordshire (2), Surrey, Tyne and Wear, Warwickshire, West Dunbartonshire, West Glamorgan, West Midlands (4), Wiltshire. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Theme Parks: Berkshire, Cheshire (4), Conwy, Cornwall (2), Cumbria, Derbyshire (3), Devon, East Sussex, Essex, Lancashire, Lincolnshire, Merseyside (2), Middlesex, North Devon (2), North Yorkshire (2), Nottinghamshire, Scotland, Somerset (2), Staffordshire, Strathclyde, Tyne and Wear, Tyrone, Vale of Glamorgan, West Midlands (2). 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Windsurfing: Berkshire (2), Cambridgeshire (2), Cheshire, Cornwall, County Kerry, Dorset, East Sussex, Kirkcudbrightshire, Lancashire (2), Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Merseyside, Northumberland, Pembrokeshire, West Midlands, West Yorkshire, Worcestershire (2). 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Scuba Diving: Please call the PADI International Ltd. HOTLINE: 01173 007234 for your nearest venue. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	English Heritage: SOUTH WEST: Berry Pomeroy Castle, Chysauster Ancient Village, Cleeve Abbey, Dartmouth Castle, Farleigh Hungerford Castle, Hailes Abbey, Launceston Castle, Mulcheney Abbey, Okehampton Castle, Old Sarum, Old Wardour Castle, Pendennis Castle, Portland Castle, Restormel Castle, Sherborne Old Castle, St Mawes Castle, Stonehenge, Tintagel Castle, Totnes Castle. ISLE OF WIGHT: Carisbrooke Castle, Osborne House, Yarmouth Castle. SOUTH EAST: 1066 Battle of Hastings Abbey and Battlefield, Bayham Abbey, Deal Castle, Dover Castle and Secret Wartime Tunnels, Fort Brockhurst, Lullingstone Roman Villa, Pevensey Castle, Richborough Roman Fort, Rycote Chapel, St Augustine’s Abbey, Wamer Castle and Gardens, Wolvesey Castle, Bishop’s Waltham Palace, Farnham Castle Keep, Medieval Merchant’s House, Portchester Castle. LONDON: Chapter House, Pyx Chamber and Abbey Museum, Chiswick House, Down House - Home of Charles Darwin, Eltham Palace, Jewel Tower, Marble Hill House, Ranger’s House, Wellington Arch. EAST OF ENGLAND: Audley End House and Gardens, Berney Arms Windmill, Castle Acre Priory and Castle, Grimes Graves, Framlingham Castle, Longthorpe Tower, Old Merchant’s House, Orford Castle, Saxtead Green Post Mill, Tilbury Fort, Wrest Park Gardens. EAST MIDLANDS: Ashby de la Zouch Castle, Bolsover Castle, Hardwick Old Hall, Kirby Hall, Kirby Muxloe Castle, Lincoln Medieval Bishops’ Palace, Lyddington Bede House, Rushton Triangular Lodge, Peveril Castle, Wingfield Manor. WEST MIDLANDS: Goodrich Castle, Boscobel House and the Royal Oak, Haughmond Abbey, Kenilworth Castle, Stokesay Castle, Wall Roman Site, Wenlock Priory, Witley Court, Wroxeter Roman City. YORKSHIRE: Aldborough Roman Site, Brodsworth Hall and Gardens, Byland Abbey, Clifford’s Tower, Helmsley Castle, Kirkham Priory, Middleham Castle, Mount Grace Priory, Pickering Castle, Rievaulx Abbey, Richmond Castle, Roche Abbey, Scarborough Castle, Whitby Abbey. NORTH EAST: Aydon Castle, Brinkburn Priory, Barnard Castle, Belsay Hall and Gardens, Berwick-upon Tweed Barracks, Corbridge Roman Site and Museum, Chester’s Roman Fort, Dunstanburgh Castle, Etal Castle, Finchale Priory, Housesteads Roman Fort, Lindisfarne Priory, Prudhoe Castle, Tynemouth Priory, Warkworth Castle. NORTH WEST: Brougham Castle, Carlisle Castle, Furness Abbey, Lanercost Priory, Stott Park Bobbin Mill, Beeston Castle. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	> back to top 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Under the distance selling Regulations, you have the right to cancel an order for any goods or services made by telephone and obtain a full refund. However, they do not allow you to cancel accommodation, transport or leisure services which occur on a specific date. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Click here to view information about our Asset, Gold and Platinum credit cards. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	> back to top 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
