
Woolwich plc Internet Website
Use of site terms and conditions
This is the authorised and official internet website of Woolwich plc ("The Woolwich").
You should read the information and conditions below carefully before using our website.
The information contained in this site should be read in conjunction with the Terms and Conditions
of the appropriate product and/or service.
Table of Contents
Use of this Site
Copyright
General Information
Use of this Site
This website is aimed at, and should only be viewed by, persons resident (or in the case of a company incorporated)
in the UK and the services and products being advertised are only available in the UK to such residents.
Although The Woolwich takes every precaution in ensuring its software and materials are virus
free, it cannot guarantee that the material or software you download are free from viruses or other 
damaging codes or programs. It is a condition of allowing you to download through our site that
any liability on our part in respect of, or arising directly or indirectly from, any virus or other
damaging code or program is excluded to the extent permitted by law. Therefore, please run virus-checking
software as soon as you download any materials or before installing any software.
Please do not send to The Woolwich any personal data about yourself over the internet which you would not wish to be 
disclosed to third parties, since at present this part of The Woolwich's Website does not provide secure data transmission.
Information contained in this website which has been supplied by a third party, is given by The Woolwich in good faith
and has been taken from trade and other sources but is believed to be reliable. The Woolwich has not verified all of such
information, which may not be complete or accurate for your purposes.
The Woolwich is not responsible for the accuracy or contents of websites of other providers which may have links from this website. 
In creating hypertext links to any other websites, The Woolwich is not recommending that website or giving any assurances
as to its standing.
The articles which appear within the sections "Saving & Investing", "Mortgages & Loans",
"Insuring & Protecting" and "Banking" are intended to provide general information only and The Woolwich 
cannot accept legal responsibility for the accuracy of any particular statement. Reference to a
particular product or service does not constitute a recommendation of those products or services
by The Woolwich and visitors to this site are strongly recommended to seek professional advice
of their own before pursuing any particular course of action. The general guidance in these 
articles is given in good faith and believed to be up to date as at January 2001.
Copyright
Copyright and information contained on this website is 
owned by The Woolwich. You may use this information and reproduce it in hard 
copy for your own personal reference and use only. The information may not 
otherwise be reproduced, distributed or transmitted to any other person or 
incorporated in any way into another document or other material without the 
prior written permission of [The Woolwich]. You must not alter anything. No one 
may use any part of this website or link any other website to our website, 
without written permission from The Woolwich.
General Information
This site and the conditions for all Woolwich plc and subsidiary products, are governed
by English law. Any disputes arising from this website and terms and conditions, shall be
resolved by the England Courts.
Woolwich Plc is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank plc.
Registered Office of Woolwich plc (Registered in England No: 3295699) and
 
- Woolwich Life Assurance Company Limited (Registered in England No: 151731)
 
- Woolwich United Trust Managers Limited (Registered in England No: 2364834)
 
- Woolwich Plan Managers Limited (Registered in England No: 3230386)
is Watling Street, Bexleyheath, Kent DA6 7RR
 Woolwich plc is a member of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services 
 and Markets Act 2000. In respect of deposits with a UK office, payments under the Scheme are limited to 100% of the
 first £2,000 of a depositor's total deposits with the bank and 90% of the next £33,000, resulting in a maximum payment 
 of £31,700. Most depositors, including individuals and small firms, are covered. The Scheme covers deposits made 
 with the offices of the bank within the European Economic Area and deposits denominated in all currencies are treated 
 alike. Further details of the Scheme are available on request from The Woolwich by callijng 0800 400 900. This 
 Scheme is not applicable to branches in the Channels Islands or the Isle of Man.
