
	BBA - The British Bankers Association
	
	
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	
 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Search
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
Home 
| About BBA | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Sitemap | Terms & Conditions 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 Location : &nbspHome&nbsp&nbspBBA Services&nbsp&nbspPublications&nbsp&nbspBBA Leaflets&nbsp&nbspYour Money & the Internet	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 BBA Services 
	
 
	
 
	 
 	 
 	 Conferences 
 	 
 
	 
 	 
 	 HR recruitment 
 	 
 
	 
 	 
 	 Publications 
 	 
 
	 
 	 
 	 Training 
 	 
 
 
	
 
 
 Consumers 
	
 
	
	
 
 
 Corporate 
	
 
	
	
 
 
 Libor 
	
 
	
	
 
 
 News Room 
	
 
	
	
 
 
 Small Business 
	
 
	
 	
 
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
	
	
	 
	BBA Leaflets
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Bookmark this page 
	| 
	Email this page
	 
 
 
 
 
 
	Your Money & the Internet 
	
Your money and the Internet:
 a guide to home banking and Internet shopping
Information for personal and business customers 
Electronic commerce and new technologies mean that shopping and banking have become 
24 hour activities that, with the right equipment, can be carried out from anywhere 
in the world. 
This leaflet answers some of your questions about both Internet and PC (personal 
computer) banking and paying for goods over the Internet, covering functionality, 
security concerns, payment speed and advice for plastic card users. 
 INTERNET/PC BANKING
 
 Why do customers choose PC or Internet banking rather than 
 traditional banking methods?
 What is the difference between PC banking and Internet 
 banking?
 What can I do from my PC or over the Internet?
 How safe is my money and personal data?
Are there any precautions I should 
 take if I share a computer with others?
Is PC/Internet 
 banking ree?
 I understand how you can set up standing orders through 
 PC or Internet banking, but a direct debit or recurring transaction has to be 
 originated by the company I am paying. How can I do this through Internet banking
 How can I make a payment to someone through Internet/PC 
 banking?
 I want to pay a bill through Internet banking, how quickly 
 will the billing organisation receive the funds?
 If I want to pay, for instance, a gas bill through Internet 
 banking, how quickly will the utility company receive the funds
 How do I get started on Internet banking?
 Can I just access the bank's website and sign on or do I have 
 to ask my bank first?
 What will banking be like in the future?
 What if a computer system crashes?
 Will the bank keep my personal details confidential?
 How can I be sure that I won?t be flooded with junk 
 e-mail (or ?spam?)?
 
 PAYING FOR GOODS ON THE INTERNET
 
 Is shopping on the Internet safe?
 How can I tell that the business I want to deal with on the 
 Internet is genuine, by looking at their website?
 Is it safe to quote my plastic card number when I am ordering 
 goods over the Internet?
 Will lastic card transactions over the Internet 
 be safer in the future?
 If I decide to pay over the Internet, is there anything 
 I can do to maximise the security of my transactions?
 Where can I get further information? 
 INTERNET/PC BANKING
 
 Why do customers choose PC or Internet banking rather than 
 traditional banking methods? 
 Banking from your PC or over the Internet is:
 
 
- Convenient - you can conduct your 
 banking affairs when you want to - any time, day or night. This allows you 
 to pay bills, set up and amend standing orders and make transfers whenever 
 it suits you.
 
- Time-saving ? you don?t need 
 to visit your branch to carry out your banking business.
 
- Easy and quick ?you can manage 
 your money more easily, transfer excess funds into high-interest savings accounts 
 or switch money from your savings account to avoid overdraft charges on your 
 current account. 
 
- Reassuring ? with most systems 
 you can easily confirm whether the cheque you paid into your account has cleared. 
 
 
- Profitable - many direct banking 
 packages link into proprietary spreadsheets so that you can forecast your 
 finances, plan ahead and improve your money management.
 
What 
 is the difference between PC banking and Internet banking? 
 PC banking is conducted from your PC using a modem and special software supplied 
 by your bank. Internet banking can be carried on anywhere using any PC with 
 an Internet connection and your password. Some banks offer one or the other, 
 others offer both. 
 
 
 What can I do from my PC or over the Internet? 
 
 It depends on what your bank offers, but typically it would be some or all of 
 the following: 
 
- pay bills 
 
- transfer money between accounts 
 
 
- look at statements 
 
- adjust standing orders ae order 
 statements/cheque books etc 
 
- apply for loans or credit cards 
 ae open savings accounts 
 
- arrange insurance and other additional 
 services 
 
- access information on accounts, 
 services and interest rates. 
How safe is 
my money and personal data? 
The banking industry continually invests in developing and implementing enhanced 
security measures, including the variety of checks needed to establish that instructions 
are genuine before authorising payment. 
Keeping customers? money and information secure has always been a central part 
of the banking industry?s responsibility. 
Provided you keep your password confidential and ensure others cannot observe 
your PC screen when you sign on, the safety of the system is comparable to the 
high standards of other direct service channels. 
Are there any precautions I should take if I share a computer 
with others? 
If you use your account on a computer which is shared with other people (whether 
at home or at the office) you could: 
 
- protect your security by clearing 
 your browser?s cache when you exit.
 
- consider disabling your browser?s 
 ability to remember password and user names, if it has such an ability, in 
 order to ensure an appropriate level of security.
 
- NEVER store your password on your 
 computer?s hard disk.
 
- consider setting up separate 
 access accounts if your computer supports it
Is PC/Internet 
 banking free? 
 This depends on the bank. The majority of services are free; on some there is 
 a small annual fee. Using the Internet carries the usual phone charges. 
 
 I understand how you can set up standing orders 
 through PC or Internet banking, but a direct debit or recurring transaction 
 has to be originated by the company I am paying. How can I do this through Internet 
 banking? 
 You need to provide written or telephone instructions to the company you are 
 paying to set up a direct debit or recurring transaction. Although you can?t 
 use the Internet to set up these transactions, you can review the arrangements 
 you have made from your PC or Internet banking service. 
 
 How can I make a payment to someone through Internet/PC 
 banking?
 The screen typically prompts you to say which account you wish to credit, with 
 how much on what date etc. So you need to know the account number and branch 
 sort code of whoever you are paying ? this information is often shown on the 
 bill you may be responding to. Typically the screen will also show you your 
 account balance so you know how much money you have available. 
If I want 
 to pay a bill through Internet banking, how quickly will the billing organisation 
 receive the funds?
 It will take three to five working days. 
 
 If I want to pay, for instance, a gas bill through 
 Internet banking, how quickly will the utility company receive the funds?
 It will take three to five working days. 
 
 How do I get started on Internet banking? Can I just 
 access the bank's website and sign on or do I have to ask my bank first?
 Methods vary according to the bank. Go to your bank?s website: if they offer 
 Internet and/or PC banking there will be clear instructions telling you how 
 to sign on. The BBA?s website (www.bba.org.uk) 
 lists banks which offer PC/internet banking if you wish to shop around. 
 The websites of most of these banks have demonstrations so you can see on your 
 screen how this type of banking works in practice. 
 
 What will banking be like in the future?
 There will be even more choice than there is now. The options are likely to 
 be branch, telephone, PC, Internet, and mobile phone facilities. With people 
 leading increasingly busy lives many value delivery channels which fit in with 
 their lifestyles ? so if you can sort out your banking needs at your PC at lunchtime, 
 or make a quick phone call from home when it suits you, you are likely to welcome 
 this diversity. Some banks are currently trialing banking via interactive television 
 and palm-top organisers. 
 
 What if a computer system crashes? 
 Will my money be safe? Yes, in just the same way as it is if you use any other 
 form of banking. It is possible that if your computer crashes the transaction 
 on which you were working may not be completed. In this case it would be sensible 
 to contact the bank by phone to check the status of the transaction. 
 
 Will the bank keep my personal details confidential? 
 
 How can I be sure that I won?t be flooded with junk e-mail (or ?spam?)? 
 The Banking Code requires banks to treat all your personal information as private 
 and confidential. It also states that unless you specifically request it, or 
 give your express consent, banks will not pass your details to any company (including 
 other companies in their group) for marketing purposes.
 Is shopping 
 on the Internet safe? 
 As the Office of Fair Trading says ?Your shopping experience should be no more 
 risky than buying by mail order or on the phone, but you need to be aware of 
 possible dangers and should take certain precautions to make shopping on the 
 Internet safe.? This leaflet should help you to know what those precautions 
 are.
 
 How can I tell that the business I want to deal with 
 on the Internet is genuine, by looking at their website?
 The vast majority of businesses operating on the Internet are genuine. However, 
 criminals can set up websites masquerading as businesses in order to obtain 
 card details. You should keep a record of the business?s street address and 
 a non-mobile phone number, and cross-check the details in a telephone directory, 
 to help verify it is a legitimate business. 
 
 A separate but vital recommendation is that you only give your card details 
 to organisations which encrypt transaction data. You can tell whether an organisation 
 uses encryption by clicking on the security icon on your browser ? this will 
 show whether it has an encryption certificate and what level of security is 
 used. Also note that a certificate does not vouch for the integrity of the company 
 to which it is issued, it only ensures that the connection between you and that 
 organisation is secure. 
 
 Is it safe to quote my plastic card number when I am 
 ordering goods over the Internet? 
 Before giving your card details, it is important to check the security settings 
 in your browser are switched on. This can tell you when a secure connection 
 is established between you and the business, which is usually depicted by the 
 open padlock icon on your screen changing to a locked position. 
 Some cardholders are concerned that criminals can intercept card details across 
 the Internet, and although there is negligible evidence of this occurring, the 
 card industry is continually developing methods to improve security. If you 
 take precautions to ensure that the business you are dealing with uses encryption 
 technology and is a legitimate business, Internet purchases are just as safe 
 as using telephone or mail order. 
 
 Will plastic card transactions over the 
 Internet be safer in the future?
 Banks are currently working with major international card schemes, retailers 
 and suppliers to develop systems which protect the sensitive data used in electronic 
 commerce. This means that in the near future Internet payments by a variety 
 of electronic commerce technologies will become commonplace as well as secure. 
 Chip cards will play a pivotal role in providing the base for secure transaction 
 technology in the long term.
If I decide to pay over the Internet, is there anything I can do to maximise the 
 security of my transactions? 
 Yes! Follow this ten point internet shopping checklist:
 
 
 1 
 Make sure your browser is set to the highest level of security notification 
 and monitoring ? the safety options are not always activated by default 
 when you install your computer. 
 
 
 2 
 Two of the most popular browsers are Microsoft Internet Explorer (use version 
 3.02 or higher) and Netscape Navigator (use version 3.03 or higher). If 
 you have a different browser or use on-line services such as AOL (America 
 On-Line) or Compuserve ? contact your Internet Service Provider or software 
 supplier to find out how to activate their security features. 
 
 
 3 
 Keep a record of the retailer?s contact details including a street address 
 and a non-mobile telephone number. Beware if these details are not available 
 on the website, and do not rely on email addresses alone. 
 
 
 4 
 Click on the security icon to see if the retailer has an encryption certificate, 
 which should explain the type and extent of security and encryption it uses. 
 Only use companies that have an encryption certificate and use secure transaction 
 technology. 
 
 
 5 
 If you have any queries or concerns, telephone the company before giving 
 your card details to reassure yourself that you are dealing with a legitimate 
 business. 
 
 
 6 
 Print out your order and consider keeping copies of the retailer?s terms 
 and conditions and returns policy. Be aware that there may be possible additional 
 charges such as postage and VAT. If you are purchasing goods from traders 
 abroad, err on the side of caution, and remember that it may be difficult 
 to seek redress if problems arise. 
 
 
 7 
 Check statements from your bank or card issuer carefully as soon as you 
 receive them. Raise any discrepancies with the retailer concerned in the 
 first instance. If you find any transaction on your statement that you are 
 certain you did not make, contact your card issuer immediately. 
 
 
 8 
 Ensure you are fully aware of any payment commitments you are entering into, 
 including whether you are instructing a single payment or a series of recurring 
 payments. 
 
 
 9 
 Never disclose your card?s PIN number to anyone, including people claiming 
 to be from your bank or the police, and NEVER write it down or send it over 
 the Internet. 
 
 
 10 
 If you have any doubts about giving your card details, find another method 
 of payment. 
 
 Where can I get further information? 
 On Internet/PC banking ? contact your bank 
 On on-line shopping ? see the Office 
 of Fair Trading?s On-line Shopping Advice.
 
	
	 
	
	
- Purchase Details	
- Contents	 
	
to top
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Other Links 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	JMLSG
	Business Account Finder
	Restore UK
 Basic Bank Accounts
 Useful Links
 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Home 
	| About BBA | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Sitemap | Terms & Conditions 
	 
	
	
	© 2001&#150;2 BBA & BBAE. This website and its content, images and layout
	are protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
See terms & conditions for acknowledgement requirements should you wish to reproduce any textual content or images. 
	
