
Abbey National: Personal banking : Your Application and Credit Scoring
	
	
 	
	
	
 	 
 	 	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 	
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	 	 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
	Homepage 
	
	Interest Rates 
	
	How to Contact Us 
	
	Apply Now 
	
	The Abbey National Group 
	
 
	
	
 	 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	
	 
	Mortgages 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Savings 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Personal Banking 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	Abbey National Bank Account
	
	Switcher Service
	
	Accounts For Young People
	
	Instant Plus Account
	
	Sweep Facility
	
	Travel Money Service
	
	Sending or receiving money worldwide
	
	Credit scoring
	
	Personal Banking conditions
	
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Credit Card 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Loans 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Investments 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Pensions 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Protecting & Insuring 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Accounts For Young People 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Abbey National business 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Abbey National at work 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What happens when I apply to you for a loan or credit?
Whenever we receive a request for a bank account, mortgage, or an unsecured personal loan, we consider each application carefully.
The two main questions we have to ask ourselves are:
- Does it make sense for the individual(s) concerned to take on the financial commitment - will they be able to honour it?
- Is the risk acceptable to Abbey National?Should the answer to either of these be 'no', we have to decline the application which, naturally, will be disappointing for both Abbey National and our applicant(s).
How do you decide whether or not to accept an application?
Abbey National, like many other financial organisations, uses a process called 'credit scoring' to assess the potential risk involved in extending credit or loan facilities to you. Abbey National applies the principles of the Office of Fair Trading Guide to Credit Scoring to all applications.
When you apply, we will ask your permission to approach a credit reference agency to see if it has any information about you. Our decision will be based on the details you provide, together with information we receive about you from the credit reference agency.
Information you give us, such as: your age, occupation, income, existing loan commitments, the purpose of the loan and so on, are allocated points. Points are also allocated to the details obtained from the credit reference agency, such as: how well you have managed previous and existing accounts with other organisations.
We add all the points together to arrive at an overall score. This score is then used to help us decide whether or not to accept your application.
Is credit scoring reliable?
We find that it is. We do not discriminate on grounds of sex, race, colour, religion or disability. We do not refuse credit simply because of the place or area that you live either.
Your application is compared to groups of similar customers who applied to us in the past, making it a fair and objective process. Using this method, we make reliable decisions which are more consistent than relying upon personal impressions alone.
What is a credit reference agency?
An independent company licensed by the Office of Fair Trading, under Consumer Credit Act 1974, to hold information on individuals.
The agency holds details about almost every adult in the UK, which includes facts concerning the customer's financial background. This information helps lenders to verify the identity of the customer and provides details of their past and present financial commitments and/or credit relationships.
What kinds of information do they provide?
The two kinds of information provided are:
Public information (including):
- Voters' Roll (Electoral Register)
- County Court Judgments and Scottish Decrees
- Bankruptcies, Individual Voluntary Arrangements and Administration Orders.Private information (including):
- details of existing credit or loan agreements
- records of any closed or settled credit agreements within the past 6 years
- details of any current or previous arrears - including arrangements to repay outstanding amounts
- details of any default, write-off or property repossession within the past 6 years
- records of any searches made by other loan/credit providers.Like most lenders, Abbey National supplies data to, and receives data from, specific credit reference agencies for the purposes of assessing applications and credit account maintenance activities.
Could information from the credit reference agency be the only reason for declining my application?
Possibly, but if this is the case, we will tell you. The information received from the credit reference agency is only one part of the decision-making process. Sometimes, there may be no detrimental information held about you at the agency but we still may not be able to accept an application simply because it does not meet all of our business criteria at the time.
Is the information from a credit reference agency always negative?
Not at all. Credit reference agencies only supply factual information. They do not state any opinion regarding a customer's creditworthiness and they do not make the decision as to whether or not to accept an application. That is our responsibility. Agencies do not know which applications are successful or declined either, so they cannot tell why an applicant may have been refused credit. Credit reference agencies do not hold, as is commonly believed, a blacklist of people or properties - instead, the information held usually helps people get credit.
Obviously, our decision will be affected if information received from a credit reference agency shows that you are in arrears on a credit or loan agreement or that you want to borrow too much in relation to your income. Similarly, we take evidence of county court judgments or other credit defaults very seriously. We always try to be a responsible lender but we won't automatically decline an application just because there may have been some problems in maintaining past commitments. 
On the other hand, information that you have existing credit agreements and which shows that you are managing your commitments well will enable us to look at your application favourably.
What information does Abbey National supply to a credit reference agency?
In accordance with the criteria contained within the Banking Code we will notify a credit reference agency of details relating to personal debt. We will register a default at the agency only after formal demand for payment has been made and where at least 28 days' notice of intention to disclose such information has been given.
If, unfortunately, it were necessary for us to take possession of your property, due to a breach of the terms and conditions of a mortgage or secured loan, we would also disclose this fact to a credit reference agency in accordance with the Mortgage Code. Your name would also be placed on the Council of Mortgage Lenders Possessions Register and, as a result, be passed to other lenders.
Abbey National also provides information about how your account is managed. What we supply is in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 and the Data Protection Statement you are given when you apply or when you sign the formal agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions of the account. 
The UK credit industry has established an agreement for the purpose of regulating the sharing of credit account performance and related data on individuals. This agreement is called 'The Principles of Reciprocity'. Abbey National complies with this agreement concerning the supply and use of data.
Details of your accounts that we supply to a credit reference agency may be used by other lenders for credit assessment of you and other people with whom you are financially associated. Information held may occasionally be used for debtor tracing and fraud prevention.
Is the information I provide used in any other way?
When we assess your application for an account, your details will be checked with both the CIFAS and National Hunter fraud prevention databases. If you give us false or inaccurate information and we suspect fraud, we will record this. 
We and other organisations may use and search these records to:
- help make decisions about credit and credit-related services and insurance including motor, household, credit, life and other insurance proposals and claims for you and members of your household
- trace debtors, recover debt, prevent money laundering and fraud and for statistical purposesIf you open an account with us, your information will be kept after your account is closed. Your information may be shared with and used by Abbey National Group companies, our associated companies or agents for administration purposes and to:
- provide and run the account or service you have applied for and develop and improve our products and services
- identify and advise you by post, telephone or electronic media of products or services which the Abbey National Group and associated companies think may interest you. (For credit products this may involve releasing your details to a credit reference agency)
- release your name, address and telephone number to market research organisations for the purpose of confidential market research surveys carried out by post or telephone on our behalf.If you do not want to receive any such information or have your details disclosed to a market research company then please write to:
Abbey National plc, Freepost, MK1482, Milton Keynes MK9 1LZ. (No stamp required.)
Please note that if you ask us not to contact you about any of our products or services, you may not hear about a new product which may offer you a better rate or something which saves you money.
We may disclose details relating to your mortgage account to a credit rating agency to enable it to issue a credit rating on our behalf.
What are my rights of access to any information held about me?
You have the right under the Data Protection Act 1998 to see certain records we hold about you on payment of a fee. This is known as a subject access request and an information sheet explaining your rights is available from any branch. 
However, subject access requests are not designed to deal with general queries that you may have about your account. If, for example, you want to find out some specific information about your account, you should contact your local branch or Mortgage or Banking Centre. We aim to provide you with the information you require without you having to make a subject access request.
Details of how you can obtain a copy of the information held about you by a credit reference agency are given below.
If Abbey National declines my application, are other lenders likely to do the same?
Not necessarily. Other companies may apply different criteria to applications and use different methods of credit risk assessment. In some instances, they may place a different emphasis on the same information. This should not discourage you from applying elsewhere.
The fact that we have asked a credit reference agency for information about you will be recorded by that agency. Other credit providers may learn of this if they use the same agency when considering an application from you. It is unlikely that a single enquiry would cause problems in the future.
Can I check the information a credit reference agency has about me?
Yes. Under the Data Protection Act 1998 you may request details held about you by the credit reference agency. Simply send them a written request, stating all names that you have been known by (include full forename and other initials), your date of birth and the address(es) that you have lived at within the last 6 years together with a cheque/postal/money order for £2.
Abbey National mainly uses Experian Ltd and Equifax Plc, although other credit reference agencies do exist. You can ask for an application form at any Abbey National branch or write to each agency direct at:
Consumer Help Service, Experian, PO Box 8000, Nottingham NG1 5GX. www.uk.experian.com
Credit File Advice Centre, Equifax plc, PO Box 3001, Glasgow G81 2DT. www.equifax.co.uk
Tel: 0870 0100583 if you would like to pay Equifax by credit or debit card.
With a copy of your credit file you will be sent a booklet which explains how to interpret the information held and what your rights are. You can, for example, challenge the accuracy of any details shown. If you believe that what you see is not correct then you can contact the organisation that supplied the information and tell them what you believe is wrong and why. If, after investigation it is agreed that the information is not accurate, then it will be changed.
Even if there is accurate information held which affects your ability to obtain loans or credit, you have the right to put a 'notice of correction' on your credit file. This is your opportunity to make a statement, if you wish, to explain your version of events. Once this 'notice' has been placed, every lender who looks at your file must read the 'notice' before making any lending decision about you. Naturally, it is up to the lender to make its own decision, but at least they will have taken your statement into account.
Can I appeal against your decision?
Yes, if you think we have made a mistake, or you have further information to support your case.
Mortgages and Secured Loans
Please contact your local Abbey National branch or Telesales Department, as appropriate.
If your application was made through a financial advisor who recommended Abbey National to you, please contact them initially and they will arrange for your case to be reviewed.
Alternatively, you may appeal in writing to:
Mortgage Appeals Officer, Abbey National plc, Abbey House, 201 Grafton Gate East, Central Milton Keynes MK9 1AN.
If you did not provide a detailed budget planner and 6 months' bank statements with your mortgage application, please ensure these are enclosed with your letter.
Bank account and Abbeyloan
For bank account and Abbeyloan appeals, you may telephone our Appeals Department on
0870 240 1133.
Alternatively, you may appeal in writing to:
Manager Risk Operations, Abbey National plc, AHMG52, Abbey House, 201 Grafton Gate East, Central Milton Keynes MK9 1AN.
We will always be happy to reconsider an application, however, Abbeyloan applicants who do not meet our normal credit scoring criteria may be offered a loan but at a higher rate.
 
Credit Card
The Abbey National Credit Card is issued by MBNA Europe Limited.
For credit card appeals, you may telephone our Credit Card Services helpline on 0800 0683562.
Alternatively, you may appeal in writing to:
Abbey National Credit Card Services, PO Box 1048, Chester Business Park, Wrexham Road, Chester CH4 9ZZ.
We cannot guarantee to reverse a decision, but we will always be happy to reconsider your application if you believe you have been wrongly declined.
Note re: Credit Repair Companies
Please be careful when dealing with companies which claim they can 'clean up' your credit history. You'll find the advertisements in newspapers and magazines and even on the TV or the radio. You can sort out your credit file yourself or with expert help FREE OF CHARGE. You do not need to pay.
- You can get free advice about County Court Judgments, bankruptcy, defaulted accounts or other arrears.
- You can get free advice on how to sort out your debts and how to apply for credit even if your past is not perfect.
- You can get free advice about the contents of your credit file.For more information or advice, contact:
- Citizens' Advice Bureau (look in your local telephone directory for details of the nearest CAB branch) or view www.nacab.org.ukFor help with debt or credit problems, contact:
- Consumer Credit Counselling Service tel: 0800 138 1111 or view www.cccs.co.uk
- National Debtline tel: 0808 808 4000 or view www.nationaldebtline.co.ukYou can even obtain a free booklet - 'No Credit?' - from the UK Office of the Information Commissioner, tel: 0870 4421211 or view www.dataprotection.gov.uk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 	
 	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By the way...
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abbey National offers support in the downs as well as the ups. So, if you run
into financial problems, don't worry, come and talk to us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 
	
	
 
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	Peace of Mind Guarantee 
	Privacy Statement 
	 
	
	
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP YOUR REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. ABBEY NATIONAL PLC, WHICH IS REGULATED BY THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY ONLY ADVISES ON ITS OWN LIFE ASSURANCE, PENSION AND COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME PRODUCTS. THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY DOES NOT REGULATE THE PROVISION OF MORTGAGES, CREDIT CARDS AND UNSECURED PERSONAL LOAN AGREEMENTS.TO HELP US IMPROVE OUR SERVICE WE MAY RECORD OR MONITOR PHONE CALLS.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
