
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The terms and conditions set out below together with any documents referred 
 to in
 the conditions and any service literature and any duly completed client 
 registration form(s) constitute the agreement ("the Agreement") 
 applying between the client ("You"), and Stocktrade ("Stocktrade") 
 a division of Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited ("BDS") in respect 
 of the use of Stocktrade's share dealing service ("the Service"). 
 You shall not be entitled to use the service until you have given your 
 acceptance to the terms and conditions of this Agreement to Stocktrade. 
 Any prior use or attempted use of the service shall constitute your acceptance 
 of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
 
 In this agreement the terms "We", "Us" and/or "Our" 
 should be taken to mean Stocktrade and/or Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 
 as appropriate.
 
 
- Our Regulatory Status 
 
 
 
- BDS is regulated by the Financial Services Authority ("FSA") 
 is a member of the London Stock Exchange. Investment business will 
 be conducted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the 
 FSA. The registered office of BDS is 5 Giltspur Street London EC1A 
 9BD. 
 
 
 
 
 
- Our Service
 
 
 
 
- Stocktrade will provide an execution only dealing service in a 
 range of stocks and shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange. 
 This means that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
 transaction and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction 
 is suitable for you. We are not your investment manager and are 
 under no obligation to advise you of any matter affecting your holding 
 and are under no duty to provide you with valuations. The service 
 may be extended to securities of other markets at the discretion 
 of Stocktrade.
 
 
 
 
 
- Instructions 
 
 
 
- Orders may be placed between 8.00am - 4.30pm Monday to Friday. 
 The service is not available on bank, or public holidays. We reserve 
 the right to alter these hours without notice.
 
- Market prices will be provided on request, subject to availability.
 
- All transactions are entered into entirely at the risk of the 
 client. All telephone instructions may be recorded and all on-line 
 instructions may be retained as evidence of such instructions.
 
- We will assume that any instructions received in electronic form 
 or over the telephone, which have been authenticated by your username 
 and password, or client code, will be genuine, valid instructions 
 from you and we will act accordingly. You will assume full settlement 
 responsibility for all such transactions. Usernames, passwords, 
 client or account codes must not be disclosed, or be allowed to 
 be disclosed to third parties.
 
- We may in our absolute discretion and without giving reasons 
 decline to accept any particular instruction or order. If we accept 
 your instructions or orders, we will use reasonable endeavours to 
 carry them out. However, we will not be liable for any loss or expense 
 you incur if we are unable to do so for whatever reason or if there 
 is a delay or change in market conditions before the contract is 
 effected. All such telephone orders will normally be for the earliest 
 practicable execution at the best price obtainable. In certain circumstances, 
 orders passed by telephone may be aggregated with those of other 
 clients for execution. On some occasions this may result in a more 
 or less favourable price than might have been achieved had the order 
 been executed separately.
 
- If you are 'closing' a bargain you must inform us at the time 
 of dealing. A closing bargain can normally be instructed up to 3 
 days prior to the settlement of the 'opening' transaction.
 
- In all cases, if you are in doubt about whether an instruction 
 has been received or carried out, you must telephone Stocktrade 
 as soon as is reasonably possible. 
 
 
 
 
 
- Execution 
 
 
 
- We will be responsible for the execution of your orders. Under 
 FSA rules, we are obliged to provide you with "best execution" 
 when executing a transaction for you (meaning the price that is 
 the best available for the customer in the relevant market at the 
 time for the transactions of the kind and size concerned). Clients 
 are advised that, in general, published best execution prices are 
 for transactions arranged with a standard settlement period.
 
- In the unlikely event that an incorrect bargain price is reported 
 to you, either when your bargain is confirmed or when your contract 
 note issued, we shall be entitled to amend the contract note so 
 that a contract note is issued at the correct price at which the 
 bargain was executed. If in respect of a purchase where the correct 
 price is higher than the price reported to you and there are insufficient 
 funds in your deposit account, stock within your CREST personal 
 account or nominee account may be sold on your behalf and the funds 
 credited to your deposit account. In the case of a sale where the 
 correct price is lower than the initial price reported in error 
 and should you have already instructed us to transfer the sale proceeds 
 to a different bank account, you undertake to reimburse this amount 
 to us immediately. Failure to do so may result in stock held in 
 your CREST personal account or nominee account being sold to cover 
 the debit.
 
- All relevant stockmarket transactions will be dealt in sterling 
 and undertaken in accordance with the Rules of the London Stock 
 Exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
- Settlement 
 
 
 
- Unless otherwise agreed, all transactions are dealt and settled 
 in sterling. Contract notes will confirm execution, will contain 
 the relevant settlement date for all transactions and will act as 
 invoices. Settlement for all sums due (including fees, dividends, 
 market claims, charges and expenses where applicable) to us will 
 be taken from your deposit account unless otherwise agreed. In any 
 event it is a condition that cleared funds must be provided on or 
 before settlement day. Unless otherwise agreed funds due to you 
 will be settled into your deposit account or by BACS to the bank 
 whose details appear on your application form or by cheque (in the 
 name of the account holder only) if requested (we may make a charge 
 for cheque settlements). In respect of cash bargains, funds must 
 be immediately available in the case of purchases. In the case of 
 cash sales, certificates and signed stock transfer forms or renounced 
 documents of title must be available prior to sale. We reserve the 
 right to ask to have such stock in our office before dealing.
 
- In the event of the delayed delivery of certificate(s) and/or 
 other documents of title and/or appropriate transfer forms duly 
 signed for sales or in the event of late settlement for purchases, 
 we reserve the right to retain relevant documents and/or reverse 
 any outstanding positions and/or charge any loss (including dealing 
 costs) to the client unless a contrary agreement has been made and 
 confirmed in writing. We will charge interest on the outstanding 
 amount at a rate of 3% above the prevailing approved bank base rate 
 and also on any unsettled loss at the same rate. In addition an 
 administration charge may be payable and you will also be required 
 to pay any charges/fines levied by the Stock Exchange or CRESTCo 
 as a result of delayed delivery of certificates etc. We also reserve 
 the right to realise stock held in a CREST personal account, Stocktrade's 
 nominee company name and/or any other nominee company names under 
 the jurisdiction of BDS to settle outstanding positions, but only 
 after due notification to the client by telephone or letter to the 
 address provided by the client to Stocktrade.
 
- Any correspondence and/or documents of title are dispatched to 
 you by first class post or courier, and to the latest address notified 
 to us by you and at your sole risk. Other than where specified we 
 shall have no responsibility for any failure in delivery to you 
 on the part of the postal system. If within three weeks of the settlement 
 date of your bargain you do not receive a certificate for a purchase 
 and/or a balance certificate in respect of a sale you must telephone 
 Stocktrade immediately. We will accept no responsibility for any 
 non-delivery outside this deadline where our records show the certificate 
 has been dispatched.
 
- You undertake to ensure that any documents of title, duly signed 
 transfer forms and/or any power of attorney or other document(s) 
 necessary to enable good delivery are delivered to us at least 3 
 business days before the relevant settlement date. Failure to comply 
 with this provision may result in delayed settlement of any sums 
 due to you. Where such documentation is required to be lodged with 
 the relevant company's registrar, settlement may be similarly delayed.
 
- If you give us a sale instruction for stocks or shares for which 
 a dividend has been paid to you and to which you are not entitled 
 (i.e. you sell 'Cum dividend') you agree to pay us the amount of 
 the dividend on receipt of our request for payment.
 
- If you give us a sale instruction for stocks or shares with the 
 benefit of a rights, bonus or other entitlement (i.e. 'Cum rights', 
 'Cum bonus' etc.) you undertake to deliver to us all the appropriate 
 documentation. If you do not, you authorise us to purchase the relative 
 holding equivalent to the benefit due and agree to meet the purchase 
 price and any costs or expenses incurred by us in doing so.
 
- Where the service provision permits, if you effect a transaction 
 for delayed settlement (i.e. where the settlement period is longer 
 than the standard settlement period for that market) the counterparty 
 may levy a charge and any such charge will be reflected in the price 
 shown on the contract note.
 
- If, at our discretion, you make a purchase for extended settlement 
 we reserve the right at any time to request payment in advance of 
 the settlement date. If you fail to provide such payment within 
 two business days we reserve the right to close the position. However 
 you remain liable for any outstanding costs and payments. Where 
 this event occurs, we will wherever possible but without any obligation 
 use our best endeavours to contact you in advance of closing out 
 such open positions to give you the opportunity to make alternative 
 arrangements.
 
- Where the service provision permits payment by debit card, your 
 bank or building society account should be debited within two days 
 of the transaction date. You must ensure therefore that cleared 
 funds are available immediately within the account to meet your 
 full liability. If authorisation is not obtained we reserve the 
 right to sell the stock to close the position and you agree that 
 we may debit the costs of such a transaction to your card.
 
 
 
 
 
- Third Parties and Agents 
 
 
 
- We will provide our services to you on the basis that only you 
 are our client (unless otherwise agreed in writing with you) and 
 so, if you act on behalf of another person, whether or not you identify 
 him to us, he will not be our indirect customer for the purposes 
 of the rules of the FSA.
 
- We may, upon receipt of prior written instruction from you, accept 
 instructions from named third parties to effect transactions on 
 your account or otherwise to deal with the assets forming your account. 
 You will have sole responsibility for and indemnify us against any 
 costs or loss(es) that you may incur as a result of us acting in 
 accordance with any such instructions.
 
 
 
 
 
- Your Money 
 
 
 
- Stocktrade is regulated by the FSA which requires us to keep 
 client money in a separate client account, from our own funds, at 
 an approved bank (as defined in FSA's rules). Stocktrade may at 
 its discretion hold client money with a bank, settlement agent, 
 intermediary broker or OTC counterparty located in a jurisdiction 
 outside the UK. The legal and regulatory regime applying in a jurisdiction 
 outside the UK will be different to that of the UK and in the event 
 of default, client money may be treated differently from the position 
 that would apply if the money was held in a client bank account 
 in the UK.
 
- Money that we hold on deposit will earn interest at a rate 1% 
 below the approved bank's base rate. If this rate is different from 
 the actual rate earned you will not be disadvantaged. In the event 
 of a default on payment, interest will be charged daily from the 
 due date on the outstanding balance at three percentage points over 
 the prevailing approved bank's base rate. 
 
- Deposit accounts will be held in sterling and any foreign currency 
 received will be converted to sterling at your expense.
 
- Cash withdrawals from your deposit account will only be made to 
 the bank account number and sort code provided by you on your client 
 application form. Any changes to this data must be provided to us 
 in writing, signed by the relevant registered Stocktrade account 
 holder. Where there is more than one party to the account all parties 
 must sign. Funds requested from recent sales will only be remitted 
 on or subsequent to the settlement date of the sale. Funds placed 
 on deposit can only be remitted to clients once the original deposits 
 have been cleared through the banking system.
 
 
 
 
 
- Your Asset
 
 
 
- Once paid for, holdings purchased on your behalf will be registered 
 in the name of the account holder and at the address stated in the 
 Application Form or as subsequently advised. However clients who 
 wish to make use of our Nominee facility and/or hold a CREST personal 
 account must sign and return the relevant authorities.
 
- Safe Custody investments are registered in the name of New Town 
 Nominees Limited, or any of our associated nominee companies, or 
 any other nominee company appointed by us. We accept responsibility 
 for the safe custody obligations of New Town Nominees Limited and 
 any other of our associated nominee companies. Our responsibility 
 does not extend to other custodial organisations, unless any loss 
 is directly due to our fraud, wilful default or negligence.
 
- There may be other clients of ours with holdings in the same 
 investment through the same nominee company. In this case, the investments 
 may be pooled. This means that whilst the nominee company has full 
 records of the underlying clients' entitlements, these may not be 
 identified by either separate certificates or other documents, or 
 their electronic equivalent. Pooling also means that, were a custodian 
 to default, and this resulted in an irreconcilable shortfall, that 
 shortfall might be divided pro-rata between clients.
 
- Where we arrange for an investment to be held overseas on your 
 behalf, it may be subject to different settlement, legal and regulatory 
 requirements applying in that country together with differing practices 
 for the separate identification of the investment compared to those 
 in the UK.
 
- We reserve the right to realise stock held in any BDS group nominee 
 company or in CREST personal accounts and/or any other nominee company 
 names under the jurisdiction of BDS in order to settle any outstanding 
 positions where stock or money is due. This will only be done after 
 due notification to the client by telephone, e-mail or letter to 
 the address provided by the client to Stocktrade.
 
- When clients instruct holdings to be transferred either into 
 or out of CREST personal accounts, we will effect the transfer as 
 soon as is reasonably practicable. However, clients should be aware 
 that the speed with which transfers are effected once we have issued 
 the initial instruction, lies outside our control and within the 
 control of third parties therefore no guarantees can be given regarding 
 the speed of transfers. 
 
- For nominee clients we shall account to you for all dividends, 
 interest payments and other rights accruing to you. Where there 
 is a cash or stock distribution and the pro-rata value of any fractional 
 entitlement is less than £10 in cash or one share, such fractional 
 elements of cash or stock will not be credited to you or your account 
 and will be retained by us.
 
- In respect of holdings in our nominee company, we shall act only 
 on your instructions when dealing with take-overs, other offers 
 or capital reorganisations. As we run a pooled nominee we are unable 
 to offer the exercising of voting rights or the election to receive 
 enhanced scrip dividends.
 
- Clients who hold their stock within an appointed nominee company 
 will be liable for payment of a fee in accordance with our published 
 rates. This may be automatically debited using an existing direct 
 debit instruction or from your deposit account balance without further 
 notification, or by separate request.
 
- CREST personal accounts are only available to clients who are 
 resident in the EEA. We will account to you for any changes in legislation 
 which pertain to your CREST membership. We reserve the right to 
 vary the administration charge based on trading and account activity. 
 If a CREST personal account has remained inactive for a period of 
 six months and does not hold any securities or have any outstanding 
 transactions we also reserve the right to discontinue sponsorship.
 
 
 
 
 
- Investment Limits 
 
 
 
- Unless otherwise agreed, you may only invest up to a limit of 
 the amount held in your deposit account plus any sums from sales 
 that are due for settlement prior to the purchase settlement day, 
 or any funds that are authorised on your debit card. If a purchase 
 puts an account in breach of this limit, we reserve the right to 
 reverse the relevant purchase in its entirety without notice. Sales 
 proceeds and purchase considerations will be respectively credited 
 and debited to your deposit account run by us and you will be liable 
 for any resultant losses and costs. Please note the internet system 
 allows you to confirm your deposit account balance.
 
- If no deals are transacted for a period of six months, any previously 
 agreed dealing limits will revert to the value of cash (and/or subject 
 to status stocks and/or shares) you hold with us.
 
- You retain full responsibility for being aware at all times of 
 your exposure to the market. Any collateral requirement, or agreed 
 dealing limit, is for our benefit and does not imply any responsibility 
 on our behalf to maintain that collateral or to restrict you from 
 dealing beyond that limit.
 
 
 
 
 
- Investment Permissions and Restriction 
 
 
 
- We may deal for you at your request in respect of:
 i) investments which may be subject to stabilisation. Stabilisation 
 is a price-supporting process that very often takes place in the 
 context of new issues, including rights issues and, in particular, 
 privatisations. It only takes place for a specified period. There 
 are limits on the price at which shares, warrants or depositary 
 receipts may be stabilised but none in respect of loan stock or 
 bonds. Stabilisation can affect the market price of investments 
 of the same class already in issue and of other investments whose 
 price affects the price of the new issue. It takes place in order 
 to ensure that an issue is introduced to the market in an orderly 
 fashion and that the issue price and/or the price of associated 
 investments is not artificially depressed as a result of the increase 
 in supply;
 ii) transactions which commit you to underwriting or similar obligations 
 in connection with a new issue, rights issue, take-over or similar 
 transaction
 
 
- If you wish to purchase warrants, before passing an instruction 
 to Stocktrade, you are required to sign, and Stocktrade must have 
 received back from you, a Warrant Risk Warning Notice. 
 
- We do not permit "short sales". You may only give instructions 
 to sell securities which you own or have the right to sell. Instructions 
 will be accepted to sell stocks or shares that you own but have 
 not yet paid for on the basis that the settlement date for the sale 
 is the settlement date of the purchase or later. By giving such 
 instructions you confirm that you beneficially own the securities 
 or are authorised to sell them. All securities sold must be free 
 from any pledge, lien, charge or encumbrance. We may (but are not 
 obliged to) ask you for proof of ownership of, or authority to sell 
 securities, and you agree that you will provide such proof within 
 a reasonable length of time. In such circumstances we may delay 
 acting on your instructions until we are satisfied that you have 
 the right to sell the relevant securities. Any sales of securities 
 which you do not own or have authority to sell may be reversed at 
 your expense and any resulting loss will be charged to you. 
 
- Limit orders will be accepted for telephone service clients on 
 a best endeavour basis. We cannot guarantee to deal at your actual 
 price, particularly in fast moving or volatile markets. If you place 
 an order outside "normal market hours," this will be transacted 
 on the next business day. Limit orders will be good for that business 
 day only and if achieved in that time the deal(s) will be contracted 
 without further reference. Any limits that are not achieved on the 
 same business day will be discarded without further reference.
 
 
 
 
 
- Off-Exchange Transactions 
 
 
 
- Subject to our prior permission, we may deal for you in circumstances 
 in which the relevant deal is on an investment exchange that is 
 not recognised or designated by the Financial Services Authority 
 as meeting certain standards to safeguard investors or not regulated 
 by the rules of any investment exchange.
 
 
 
 
 
- OEICS, Unit Trusts and other Packaged Products 
 
 
 
- If at any time you request and we agree to deal in OEICS, unit 
 trusts or other packaged products, we will do so on an execution 
 only basis and as an independent intermediary. This means that we 
 may purchase, at your request, OEICS or unit trusts from the entire 
 range of available trusts. As an execution only client you will 
 have no right to any cooling-off or cancellation period and we will 
 not be responsible for the suitability of the transaction for you.
 
- When we deal for you in OEICS or unit trusts there may be a delay 
 in the receipt by us of contract notes from the relevant manager. 
 Contract notes will be sent to you with due despatch once we have 
 received and confirmed the details thereon.
 
 
 
 
 
- Non-Readily Realisable Investments 
 
 
 
- If at any time you request and we agree to deal in non-readily 
 realisable investments i.e. investments that are not government 
 securities nor listed on an exchange nor regularly traded thereon, 
 the market in such securities can be limited or could become so; 
 they can be difficult to deal in and it can be difficult to assess 
 what would be a proper market price for them.
 
 
 
 
 
- Conflicts of Interest and Independence Policy
 
 
 
 
- Your attention is drawn to the fact that when we execute a transaction 
 on your account, we, a connected company or some other person connected 
 with us may have an interest, relationship or arrangement, such 
 as that in section 14.2 below, that is material in relation to the 
 investment or transaction concerned or could give rise to a conflict 
 of interest and you agree that we shall not be required to disclose 
 it to you. However, our employees are required to comply with a 
 policy of independence and disregard any such interest, relationship 
 or arrangement when dealing for you.
 
- When we enter into a transaction for you we, or one of our connected 
 companies, could be, for example: 
 - matching your transaction with that of another client by acting 
 on his behalf as well as yours; 
 - buying investments where we, or a connected company are involved 
 in a new issue, rights issue, takeover or similar transaction concerning 
 the investment or a related investment; 
 - holding a position in the investment or a related investment; 
 or 
 - executing or arranging transactions on behalf of or in the name 
 of any company involved in the transaction.
 You hereby expressly agree that we and the relevant connected company 
 may do so and are not required to account to you for any income, 
 gain, profit, benefit or other advantage arising from doing so provided 
 that we do not contravene the rules of the FSA in relation to the 
 price or execution of the transaction.
 
 
- We will be entitled from time to time, at our absolute discretion, 
 to delegate to any person or entity the performance of any of our 
 duties, functions or powers.
 
 
 
 
 
- Our Charges 
 
 
 
- Full details of our charges are set out in the Charges Schedule 
 on our website, our service documentation or by separate agreement. 
 Any alteration to these charges will be notified to you at or before 
 the time of the change. You will also pay any applicable disbursements 
 in respect of VAT, stamp duty, PTM levy and other taxes in respect 
 of all transactions. Any charges due plus any applicable VAT may 
 be deducted from any funds held on your behalf or, at our discretion, 
 shall be paid by you as stated in the relevant contract note or 
 advice note. Although these and certain other fees charged attract 
 VAT, no separate VAT invoices will be issued.
 
- Charges and expenses are payable on demand and may be deducted 
 from any monies held on your behalf. We also reserve the right to 
 realise stock held in a CREST personal account, Stocktrade's nominee 
 company name or any nominee company name under the jurisdiction 
 of BDS to settle outstanding positions, only after due notification 
 to the client by telephone or letter to the address provided by 
 the client to us.
 
- We may share dealing charges with our associated companies or 
 other third parties, or receive remuneration from them in respect 
 of such transactions carried out on your behalf. Any such remuneration 
 or sharing arrangements will be referred to on the relevant contract 
 note. Further details can be made available to you on request.
 
 
 
 
 
- Internet Service - specific provisions 
 
 
 
- The Internet service is an execution-only dealing service in 
 relation to a range of UK company shares and securities that are 
 settled in CREST and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The 
 range of securities available may change and will not necessarily 
 cover the full range of stocks quoted on the London Stock Exchange. 
 If you wish to deal in stocks that are not available on the Internet 
 service you may do so through other Stocktrade services designed 
 for that purpose, subject to our agreement. 
 
- Our Internet service allows for orders to be passed and executed 
 online via the Internet. We do not guarantee that live prices and 
 the ability to execute orders online will always be available for 
 the entire range of stocks at all times. Under certain circumstances 
 prices, and the ability to execute orders on-line, may be unavailable 
 for individual stocks or for the entire range of stocks. Under such 
 circumstances if you wish to deal, or obtain prices, you may telephone 
 us.
 
- An order or instruction effected using the Internet service shall 
 be deemed to be irrevocable once the visual or graphical "Place 
 Order" button or interface has been "clicked" where 
 indicated. We shall act upon any order or instruction so effected. 
 You will assume full settlement responsibility for such orders or 
 instructions or any transactions pursuant to the same. 
 
- By its nature, the Internet is not an entirely reliable medium. 
 Delivery times for messages sent using the Internet vary considerably 
 often depending on your internet service provider, the way in which 
 the message has been routed on the internet and other third party 
 service providers. We or any business connection shall not be liable 
 for any losses, costs, liabilities, claims or expenses arising from 
 any errors or delays that may occur as a result. 
 
- In respect of the Internet service, limit orders will neither 
 be accepted on-line nor by telephone.
 
- The Internet is not an entirely secure environment. For this 
 reason, despite available means of encryption and privacy protection, 
 we cannot guarantee that any order, message or instruction sent 
 using the Internet will not be capable of being intercepted read 
 or copied by an unauthorised third party or parties. 
 
- You must contact us immediately if you suspect that your username 
 or password has been disclosed to, or obtained by, a third party 
 and that its integrity is threatened. Until such notification is 
 received by us, we will assume that any instructions received in 
 electronic form, or over the telephone, which have been authenticated 
 by your username and password, or client code, will be genuine and 
 valid instructions from you and we will act accordingly. You will 
 assume full settlement responsibility for all such transactions. 
 
 
- All Internet trades take place within the United Kingdom. 
 
- Settlement of all Internet service transactions will be via deposit 
 accounts, set up for that purpose in advance of dealing.
 
- Stock purchased through the Internet service will be registered 
 in the name of New Town Nominees Limited or any of BDS' associated 
 nominee companies, or any other nominee company appointed by Stocktrade 
 or may, subject to acceptance, be registered in users names and 
 held electronically in CREST personal accounts. 
 
- The installation and maintenance of all computer hardware, software 
 and communications devices needed by you to use any of our services 
 are solely your responsibility. 
 
- We reserve the right, without notice, to withdraw the online 
 service from clients or to restrict access to the service to particular 
 clients in respect of clients whose dealing behaviour in our sole 
 opinion threatens to disrupt the market or provides other cause 
 for concern. In such circumstances, we shall not be liable for any 
 claims, actions, damages, liabilities, losses, costs or expenses 
 suffered or incurred by you in respect of the withdrawal of the 
 on line service. In such circumstances orders to buy and sell shares 
 can still be passed over the telephone as long as sufficient funds 
 or stock is available within your deposit account or CREST or nominee 
 account. 
 
 
 
 
 
- Exclusion of Liability and Indemnity 
 
 
 
- Subject to our duties and liabilities under the Financial Services 
 Act 1986 and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and FSA 
 rules, we or any business connection shall not be liable for any 
 loss or damage suffered by you in connection with the provision 
 of any services to which this Agreement applies except to the extent 
 that such loss or damage results directly from our negligence, fraud 
 or wilful default.
 
- You agree to indemnify us against any liability or expense that 
 may be incurred in the proper exercise of our powers and duties. 
 This indemnity will not apply in the case of liability or expense 
 arising from our breach of FSA rules or the Financial Services Act 
 1986 or the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 or our negligence, 
 fraud or wilful default.
 
 
 
 
 
- Disclosure of Information 
 
 
 
- We will not disclose any information about you or your dealings 
 to any third party without your consent, except where it is necessary 
 for the purpose of executing and settling your order or where we 
 are under a legal or regulatory obligation to do so or where in 
 certain circumstances the law says we can do so.
 
- We may carry out a credit check with a licensed credit reference 
 agency that will retain a record of that search. In the event of 
 default, relevant details may be recorded with that agency and with 
 the Stockbrokers Risk Forum Ltd. This information may be used by 
 other stockbrokers, financial institutions, etc., in assessing applications 
 for credit by you and members of your household, and for occasional 
 debt tracing and fraud prevention purposes. 
 
- We may sometimes use information about you in order to offer 
 you other services that may be of interest to you, both from us 
 and other associated companies or agencies. We will not do so if 
 you have indicated to the contrary on our registration forms, or 
 where there is an agreement with a business connection in place 
 which prohibits this activity. We will cease to use or disclose 
 such information where it is used or is to be used for direct marketing 
 purposes if you have so requested.
 
- In the event of any default where cash remains due to Stocktrade, 
 we reserve the right to refer this debt at any time and without 
 further notification, to a debt collection agency to recover the 
 funds on our behalf. We also reserve the right, at our absolute 
 discretion, and without further notification, to sell the debt in 
 its entirety to another party.
 
 
 
 
 
- General 
 
 
- We have in place specific cover via the Securities and Futures 
 Industry Policy Scheme to provide us with protection to their maximum 
 limit of £20 million for any one claim in respect of losses 
 arising out of fraud, misappropriation or theft of any client's 
 assets in our custody and control, which includes both cash and 
 securities. As a further safeguard we have topped up this cover 
 to give a total insured limit of £50 million.
 
- We are participants in the UK Investors Compensation Scheme. 
 In the event of our default, compensation may be available from 
 that scheme in respect of our liabilities to you under this Agreement. 
 The maximum compensation payable under that scheme is £30,000 
 plus 90% of the balance of the claim up to £50,000. Further 
 details are available on request from us, the FSA or the UK Investors 
 Compensation Scheme.
 
- To the extent permitted by law, we or any business connection 
 shall not be liable for any direct or indirect, special, incidental 
 or consequential loss or damages including loss of profits, business, 
 revenue or goodwill arising from the use of or inability to use, 
 interruption or non-availability of the website or the service (including, 
 without limitation, third party delays, whether in respect of the 
 provision of parts or equipment or otherwise, delays by service 
 providers or software suppliers or maintainers), its operation or 
 transmission, computer viruses, loss of data or otherwise in respect 
 of the use of the website or the service or the downloading of any 
 software made available by us. Notwithstanding the other terms of 
 this Agreement, there shall be excluded from this Agreement any 
 warranties, conditions or terms which may otherwise, in the absence 
 of this clause, be implied into this Agreement in respect of the 
 services by virtue of any statute, common law or otherwise.
 
- Our services may not be available in countries where they are 
 prohibited by local securities law. If in doubt you should contact 
 your usual legal or financial advisor. Stocktrade will not be responsible 
 for the use of the service by persons who are so prohibited.
 
- This Agreement together with any documents referred to in this 
 Agreement and any duly completed client registration forms or service 
 level agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the 
 parties in respect of the service. 
 
- Any change(s) to this Agreement will be notified to you by post, 
 or e-mail, at least 10 days in advance of the change(s) becoming 
 operative.
 
- You agree that the only duties or obligations we owe you are 
 those set out expressly in this Agreement and that we do not owe 
 you any other or further duties or obligations (whether arising 
 from the fact that we are acting as your fiduciary or otherwise). 
 You also agree that any consent or waiver given by your acceptance 
 of this Agreement in relation to any duty or obligation we might 
 otherwise owe you shall be valid, effective and comprehensive even 
 though the consent (or the disclosure to which it relates) is general 
 only and not specific to the particular transaction concerned.
 
- If any provision or term of this Agreement or any part thereof 
 shall become or be declared illegal, invalid or unenforceable for 
 any reason whatsoever, such term or provision shall be divisible 
 from this Agreement and shall be deemed to be deleted from this 
 Agreement provided always that, if any such deletion substantially 
 affects or alters the commercial basis of this Agreement, the parties 
 shall negotiate in good faith to amend and modify the provisions 
 and terms of this Agreement as may be necessary or desirable in 
 the circumstances.
 
- We may process personal data relating to you in carrying out 
 duties under this Agreement. We are bound by the Data Protection 
 Act 1998 ("the Act") as to what we may do with such data. 
 You have certain rights in respect of the data we hold relating 
 to you, for example you are entitled to request copies of the personal 
 data we hold relating to you, although we are entitled to make a 
 charge before giving you this information. Certain remedies may 
 be available to you if the data we hold relating to you is incorrect 
 or if you suffer loss as a result of any breach by us of the Act. 
 Further details are available on request. In order to provide the 
 best possible service we may share your information with our associated 
 companies unless you instruct us to the contrary.
 
- We have certain responsibilities under Money Laundering legislation 
 to verify the identity of clients and may need to make certain enquiries 
 and obtain certain information from you for that purpose. You confirm 
 that all such information you supply will be accurate and agree 
 to co-operate with our enquiries.
 
- This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance 
 with English law. We each submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of 
 the English courts in connection with any matter or dispute.
 
- All correspondence will be sent to the address provided by you. 
 Any change in address, telephone number, e-mail address or bank 
 must be notified to Stocktrade and where appropriate any business 
 connection by e-mail or in writing and the accuracy of the information 
 is your sole responsibility. 
 
 
 
 
 
- Force Majeure 
 
 
 
- In the event of any failure, interruption or delay in carrying 
 out any dealing instructions, resulting from any act, event, or 
 circumstance(s) not reasonably within our control, we shall not 
 be liable or have any responsibility for any resultant loss.
 
 
 
 
 
- Termination 
 
 
 
- Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by giving 
 the other notice in writing.
 
- Any termination is subject to the settlement of any outstanding 
 transactions and the payment of any charges and other amounts due. 
 
 
- In the case of an individual, this Agreement will terminate automatically 
 when we receive notification of death. This Agreement will be binding 
 on your personal representatives.
 
- We reserve the right to regard an account as dormant and therefore 
 eligible for termination of the agreement if no transactions have 
 taken place over a 2 year period.
 
 
 
 
 
- Notices 
 
 
 
- Notices required to be given under this Agreement will be in 
 writing addressed to your last known address and will be deemed 
 to be received two business days after posting if sent by first 
 class pre paid post. Other notices instructions and communications 
 may be given by us in person, by facsimile, by e-mail or by telephone. 
 Notices required to be given by you under this Agreement will be 
 in writing addressed to our registered office and will be deemed 
 to be received two business days after posting if sent by first 
 class pre paid post.
 
 
 
 
 
- Complaints 
 
 
 
- If you are dissatisfied with our services under this Agreement 
 you should initially discuss your complaint with any of our Directors, 
 Managers or Team Leaders. If your complaint is not resolved satisfactorily, 
 please write to the Compliance Director, Stocktrade, PO Box 1076, 
 10 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2PZ. If you are dissatisfied with 
 the outcome of our investigation, you may ask The Financial Ombudsman 
 Service to investigate your complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
STOCKTRADE
 
Stocktrade a division of Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited. Brewin Dolphin 
 Securities Limited is a member of the London Stock Exchange and Regulated 
 by the Financial Services Authority. 
 
 
 
