
insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 cahoot currently offer: 
 
 
 
 
 travel insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 mortgage protection 
 
 
 
 
 personal protection 
 
 
 
 
 personal accident insurance 
 
 
 
 
 As you have come to expect from cahoot, we have combined&#133;
 
 
 
 
 
 expertise to offer outstanding terms 
 
 
 
 
 flexibility to give you real choice 
 
 
 
 
 attractive rates for value without compromise 
 
 
 
 
 
 &#133;to bring you a range of insurance offerings that are second 
 to none.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With first-rate protection in case 
 of emergency, a range of options to personalise your policy 
 and great value (such as our annual multi-trip cover from just 
 £53.25, only £74.03 for a couple, and our single trip from as 
 little as £6.50), wherever, whenever and however you choose 
 to travel you can also choose how to minimise the risks.
 
 For immediate cover call our national rate number: 
 0870 400 4894 (and quote "web 2”) 
 
 
 
 
 
 { 
 more 
 } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We make our lives as safe and secure 
 as possible but the risk to our health is there for all of us, 
 plus, for many of us job security can no longer be guaranteed. 
 Have you done enough to safeguard your home should your life 
 be turned upside down? In partnership with Scottish Provident, 
 the mortgage protection service will cover your mortgage repayments 
 if you become critically ill or when you die - whichever happens 
 first, or if you find yourself unemployed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 { 
 more 
 } 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Life has a habit of taking unexpected 
 twists and turns, so in partnership with Scottish Provident, 
 famous for their unique and flexible policies, we have developed 
 a personal life protection service to help you overcome unforeseen 
 issues presented to you and your family. 
 
 
 
 
 
 { 
 more 
 } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Whether we are aware of potential 
 risks in our lives, or never think twice about mishaps 
 as we enjoy a busy lifestyle, a serious accident can happen 
 to anyone. cahoot personal accident insurance offers financial 
 help up to £100,000 for just £4.95 a month. 
 
 
 
 { 
 
 more 
 } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please see individual policies for terms and conditions, 
 including exclusions and restrictions: click on the {more} links above. 
 
 
 The travel insurance and personal accident insurance are arranged by cahoot and underwritten by Financial Insurance Company
Limited, incorporated in England No: 1515187, Limited by shares, Registered Address: Vantage West, Great West Road, Brentford,
Middlesex TW8 9AG. 
 
 Financial Insurance Company Limited is a member of the 
 General Insurance Standards Council (GISC). 
 
 The personal protection and mortgage protection services 
 are provided by Scottish Provident. In promoting this Scottish Provident 
 Self Assurance contract, cahoot is acting as an
 introducer of Scottish Mutual Assurance plc, and complies with the ABI 
 Life Insurance (Non Investment) Selling Code of Practice. 
 
 Scottish Provident is a brand name used by Scottish Mutual 
 Assurance plc which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority 
 
 
 cahoot is a trading division of Abbey National plc. Abbey 
 National plc acts as an Insurance Intermediary and is a member of the 
 General Insurance Standards Council. We accept
 responsibility for compliance with the GISC General Insurance code for 
 private customers. A copy of the Code is available on request or from 
 the GISC website http://www.gisc.co.uk 
	 
 
 cahoot is a division of Abbey National plc. Abbey 
 National plc is registered in England, registered number 2294747. Registered 
 Office: Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square, Regent&#146;s
 Place, London, NW1 3AN
 
 
