
Personal Finances - Current Accounts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Links to other sections
 _____________________________
 Personal Finances
 Small Business
 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets
 Group Information
 Online
 Economics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home > Personal Finances > Current Accounts > Jargon
 Buster 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interest Paying Current Account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Current Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Student Royalties Account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Graduate Royalties Account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 R21 Account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Opening a New Account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Direct Banking 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Digital Banking 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Charges for Additional Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal Finances
 Current Account Jargon Buster
 
Introduction 
 
Current accounts help you to manage your day to day finances. You can arrange to have
 your wages or salary paid directly into your account and regular bills like pension
 payments and car insurance can be settled straight from the account every month. 
 
Monthly statements help you to keep track of your spending too. The Royal Bank can
 usually supply cheque books as well as Highline/Cashline cards, so your money is always
 within easy reach. Our current accounts even pay interest on your money when you&#146;re
 in credit, so you can be saving without even knowing it. 
 
Opening an Account
 
Opening one of our current accounts is very
 straightforward. The easiest way is to contact your local branch where
 one of our Customer Advisors can help you choose the right account for you. Click here for more information.
 
Making Regular
 Payments 
 
This can be done directly from your regular
 account and is usually done in one of two ways - either by Direct Debit or by Standing
 Order. 
 
Direct Debits involve giving an organisation
 written permission to take regular amounts from your bank or building society account in
 payment for goods and services. The Direct Debit Guarantee means
 that any overcharges or errors will be refunded straight away.
 
A Standing Order is an written instruction to your bank or building
 society asking it to make regular payments of a fixed amount from your account. 
 
Automated Telling Machines 
 
Cashline is The Royal Bank of Scotland&#146;s Automated Telling Machine (ATM)
 system. Cards can be used at all
 of our machines throughout the country to withdraw money or to check your balance and
 order a new cheque book. We supply you with a Personal Identification Number (PIN) which
 you type in to the machine after inserting your card. After that you just follow the
 instructions on the screen, it couldn&#146;t be easier. 
 
You can also use your Highline or Cashline card to withdraw cash at all other major ATM
 networks in the UK. 
 
Highline is a cash card with a difference - several differences. In addition to having
 a Cashline facility, you can use Highline as a cheque guarantee card and also a Switch
 debit card - paying without writing a cheque, wherever you see the Switch sign. Highline
 also has the Cirrus and Maestro
 logos, allowing you to withdraw cash and make purchases abroad. 
 
Digital Banking
 
We offer Digital Banking.
 It allows you to use your PC or Mac, your desktop or laptop to do your banking over the
 Internet. You can check your account balances, set up standing orders, view direct debits
 and also to pay bills or transfer money between your Royal Bank of Scotland accounts on
 any date up to 120 days in the future.
 
Telephone Banking 
 
Direct Banking is The
 Royal Bank of Scotland's telephone banking service. A whole range of
 services can easily be carried out using Direct Banking, saving you the hassle of a trip
 to the branch. 
 
Firstly, if you don't already have an account
 with us, you'll need to open one before you can use Direct Banking. After that, joining
 the service is simple. Your details are kept secure at all times, and the beauty is that
 once you're a customer, we're open to take your calls 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
 
 
 
 
Frequently asked questions about Direct Banking 
 
 
 How
 do I join? 
 Simply
 phone 0345 573 454 to hear our demonstration and information line. 
 
 
 What
 about security? 
 All
 your banking transactions remain completely secure and confidential. First we issue you
 with a unique customer number which includes your date of birth. Then you choose a 4-digit
 security code. In addition, you can choose your own unique password of six letters or
 more. Every time you call Direct Banking some or all of these details will be requested
 from you before you can access your account. 
 
 
 What
 services does Direct Banking offer? 
 You can choose to conduct your Direct Banking transactions person to
 person using our Adviser service, or via the keypad on your phone using our Push Button
 service. We also have an Express line on 0800 60 20 80, for balance enquiries on your main
 account. We offer Digital Banking. It allows you to use your PC or Mac, your desktop or
 your laptop to do your banking over the Internet. You can check your account balances, set
 up standing orders, view direct debits and also to pay bills or transfer money between
 your Royal Bank of Scotland accounts on any date up to 120 days in the future. 
 
 
 
What can I
 actually do using the services? 
 You can pay
 regular bills, request statements, order a new cheque book, check your balance, transfer
 funds between your Royal Bank accounts, set up, amend or cancel standing orders, and much
 more using Direct Banking. 
 
 
 
Current Accounts Glossary
 
 
 ATM 
 Cashline is the Royal
 Bank's ATM (Automated Teller Machine) system. Linked to a network of machines throughout
 the UK and overseas, Cashline allows you to get cash and perform minor account functions
 even when your branch is closed. 
 
 
 
 Balance 
 This is the amount that is
 in your account at any given moment either in credit or overdrawn. 
 
 
 
 Charges 
 In some cases the bank
 charges agreed amounts for services such as stopping cheques or unauthorised overdrafts.
 Alternatively, certain accounts, for instance Royalties, offer extra benefits in exchange
 for a monthly subscription. 
 
 
 
 
 Cheque
 Guarantee Facility 
 Facility available on our
 Highline card which is used in conjunction with cheques. Each card carries a monetary
 limit and the bank guarantees that any cheques used together with the card will be paid up
 to that limit. 
 
 
 
 
 Cirrus 
 Cirrus is an international network of
 cash machines which allow you to withdraw money in local currency in a number of different
 countries. 
 
 
 
 Credit 
 To credit your account
 means to pay money in. If you are in credit, it means that your balance is above £0.00. 
 
 
 
 Debit 
 To debit your account means
 to withdraw money from it. 
 
 
 
 Direct
 Banking 
 Direct Banking
 is a special telephone banking service run by The Royal Bank. All you need in order to do
 your banking by phone 24 hours a day 365 days a year, is a current account. 
 
 
 
 Digital Banking 
 Our
 internet banking service allows you to carry out a whole range of transactions including
 checking your account balances, setting up standing orders, viewing direct debits and
 paying bills. 
 
 
 Free Banking 
 Free banking
 means that the bank will not charge to run your account. 
 
 
 
 Highline 
 Highline is the Royal
 Bank's 3 in 1 card. Rather than having to fill up your wallet or purse with lots of
 plastic, Highline lets you guarantee cheques, withdraw cash and make Switch payments using
 one card. 
 
 
 
 Interest 
 You will receive interest
 on credit balances maintained or you may pay overdraft interest on debtor balances 
 
 
 
 Maestro 
 Maestro is an international network of
 cash machines which allow you to withdraw money in local currency in a number of different
 countries. It is also an international point of sale facility allowing you to pay for
 goods and services in much the same way as you use Switch in the UK. 
 
 
 
 Mandated
 Salary 
 This is where
 your salary is automatically paid into your account each month by your employer. 
 
 
 
 Photocard 
 A unique
 security service that allows your photograph and signature to be laser etched onto your
 Highline card. 
 
 
 
 Switch 
 A debit card
 system which allows you to use your card to pay for goods and services in the UK where you
 see the Switch sign. The money spent is automatically withdrawn from your account -
 usually within three days. 
 
 
 
 Withdrawal
 Limit (ATM) 
 There is a
 limit to the amount of cash that you can take out each day with your Cashline or Highline
 card depending on which account you have. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please see Important Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
