
NR together
 
 
 
 
 Introduction
A Mortgage and a cash reserve together
How together works: an example
 together at one guaranteed rate 
 Repay early with no charges
Free payment protection insurance
Have it all. Take control today
Ways to repay your mortgage Any questions
 together in details
 Help with Costs Option
A guide to costs 
 
 A 
 GUIDE TO COSTS 
 
FEES AND CHARGES 
 
The costs and general features described in this site relate specifically to the secured loan and unsecured credit facility elements of together. 
together allows you to borrow any amount you choose, subject to status and valuation, secured against your property. In addition to this amount, you are able to set up an unsecured credit facility for any amount between £1,000 and £30,000. 
 
together INTEREST RATES 
 
 
The interest rate charged on together is currently 5.69% P.A. (6.1% APR) where the mortgage is up to 75% of the lower of the purchase price or value of your property, 5.79% P.A. (6.1% APR) where the mortgage is up to 90% of the lower of the purchase price or value of your property and 5.84% P.A. (6.1% APR) where the mortgage is up to 95% of the lower of the purchase price or value of your property. These rates are variable. 
The 95% loan to value product is guaranteed to be no more than 1.85% above the *Bank of England Base Rate until 1 January 2005. The 90% loan to value product will remain below the 95% loan to value product and the 75% loan to value product will remain below the 90% loan to value product for the life of the loan. 
After the guaranteed rate period has ended, the variable interest rate that will then apply for the whole of the remaining loan term is guaranteed to be below our Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate for existing customers. The together product does not qualify for the loyalty discount. 
*The Bank of England's official dealing rate (the repo rate) is set by the Monetary Policy Committee. In the event that the Bank of England Base Rate ceases to exist, or becomes inappropriate as an index for the together rate guarantee, we reserve the right to replace it with such alternative rate or index, not controlled by us, that we consider to be the most appropriate in the circumstances. 
 
ARRANGEMENT FEE 
 
 A £395 Arrangement fee is payable on together loans. This fee can be added to your mortgage account on completion, where interest will be charged at the prevailing rate. Alternatively you can pay the fee up front. For loans over £500,000 we reserve the right to charge a higher arrangement fee. 
 
HELP WITH COSTS OPTION 
 
The option to receive a Help with Costs benefit is 
 offered as follows:
 
- £1,000 for customers who are re-mortgaging to us. 
- £500 for home purchase customers. 
- £500 for existing mortgage customers taking a new mortgage product without moving home. 
This payment will be sent direct to the acting solicitor with the mortgage advance on completion. If you are an existing mortgage customer not moving home, the payment will be sent to you by cheque within 14 days of the date of transfer. 
The following conditions apply to the Help with Costs benefit: 
- If you move your Loan from us within the first two years following the date of completion or transfer of the Loan, then the Help with Costs benefit of £1,000 must be repaid in full (£500 for home purchase customers and existing mortgage customers taking a new mortgage product without moving home). 
If you move your Loan from us in the third year, following the date of completion of your Loan, then half the amount of the Help with Costs benefit must be repaid i.e. £500 (£250 for home purchase customers and existing mortgage customers taking a new mortgage product without moving home). 
- If you decide to move house and simultaneously redeem your Loan and take a new mortgage product with us or simultaneously redeem your Loan and transfer this mortgage product to your new mortgage on your new home you will not have to repay the Help with Costs benefit, provided legal completion takes place. The remaining period for repaying the Help with Costs benefit from your original Loan (see 1. above), will be transferred to your new loan. 
If you take a new mortgage product with us without moving home you will not have to repay the Help with Costs benefit. The remaining period for repaying the Help with Costs benefit from your original Loan, (see 1. above), will be transferred to your new loan. 
Repayment of the Help with Costs benefit will only apply if you move your mortgage from us within 3 years of completion of this or any other mortgage product(s) which has the Help with Costs benefit and you do not complete a new loan with us within 3 months of redemption. 
- If you move home and do not simultaneously redeem your Loan and transfer this mortgage product or take a new mortgage product with us, the Help with Costs benefit will be charged as outlined in 1. above on redemption of this Loan. This will then be refunded to you, provided you return to us for your new mortgage within 3 months of redemption. Where this happens, the remaining period for repaying the Help with Costs benefit from your original Loan, (see 1. above), will be transferred to the new loan. Subsequent repayment of this Help with Costs benefit is outlined in 2 above. 
If you have previously received Help with Costs benefit where the remaining period for repaying this benefit has been transferred to your current mortgage product this remaining period will be transferred to your new loan. 
 
LEGAL FEES FOR RE-MORTGAGES
 
We can instruct a Panel Firm of solicitors to act on our behalf in a re-mortgage transaction. We have a dedicated panel of solicitors who are conveyancing specialists with proven service levels and fast turn around times. 
With this option you will be responsible for our legal fees at the standard rate of £250 in England and Wales and £350 in Scotland (inclusive of VAT and standard disbursements) and these will be debited to your mortgage account on completion of the re-mortgage. You can pay this sum at any time after completion. However, we will charge interest at the rate charged to the mortgage until the legal fees are paid. 
Please note that the fees mentioned above are for standard re-mortgage transactions. Any extra legal work or additional disbursements will be agreed in advance and must be paid in advance. Extra work would include the purchase of land, and additional disbursements would include any first registration fee and landlords registration fee. These additional fees cannot be added to your mortgage account. 
This offer is only available when one of our re-mortgage panel firm of solicitors is instructed. 
 
LEGAL FEES FOR HOME PURCHASES
 
Home purchase customers can also use the panel solicitors, and prices will be agreed on an individual basis. These fees cannot be added to the loan. 
 
LEGAL WORK
 
A firm of solicitors will need to act on our behalf in completing your loan or remortgage and unsecured credit facility. To avoid duplication of work, the same firm will normally also act for you unless you are using our Panel of Solicitors - see above. 
The solicitor acting for you will advise you about the legal costs and any additional disbursements or outlays such as Stamp Duty that are due when buying your property or remortgaging. 
 
VALUATION FEE 
 
We will need to value your property in order to ensure that it represents adequate security for the loan that you require. 
 
VALUATION SCALE CHARGES 
 Purchase Price
 (or valuation) £ 
Up to £60,000
 £60,001 - 100,000
 £100,001 - 150,000
 £150,001 - 200,000
 £200,001 - 250,000
 £250,001 - 500,000
 £500,001 - 750,000
 £750,001 - 1,000,000
 £1,000,001 - 1,500,000
 £1,500,001 - 2,000,000
 £2,000,001 - 2,500,000
 £2,500,001 - 3,000,000
 Over £3,000,000 Valuation Report
 Fee £ 
 £235
 £255
 £285
 £310
 £335
 £395
 £450
 £495
 £625
 £775
 £925
 £1,075
 By negotiation 
 Home Buyers
 Report Fee £ 
 £390
 £430
 £470
 £515
 £560
 £625
 £675
 £725
 £925
 £1,125
 £1,325
 £1,625
 By negotiation 
 
 
 
The fees shown include a non-refundable £125 administration 
 charge. 
 
The balance is the valuer's fee. For loans in excess of £500,000 a desktop valuation assessment will also be carried out. The fee for this is £75. 
 
RE-INSPECTIONS
 
Occasionally, it is necessary for our valuer to re-inspect your property after the initial valuation has been completed. Usually, this is to verify that any new building work or essential repairs have been completed satisfactorily. If a re-inspection of the property is necessary, either before or after completion of your loan has taken place, a standard fee of £55 will be charged for each re-inspection. 
Once the valuer has re-inspected the property, we will be able to tell you whether we are able to release withheld funds to you and whether any further re-inspections may be needed. 
 
EXISTING NORTHERN ROCK MORTGAGE CUSTOMERS 
 
 
All new mortgage products are available to both new 
 customers and existing Northern Rock borrowers. If you are an existing 
 customer with us you can transfer to together even if you are 
 not moving home. You will be required to pay a £125 administration fee 
 and a £195 arrangement fee. You will also have to pay a sum equivalent 
 to any Early Repayment Charge applicable to your current mortgage product. 
 If you are increasing your borrowing there is an additional fee of £195. 
 The fees and the sum equivalent to any Early Repayment Charge applicable 
 can be added to your new mortgage where interest will be charged at 
 the prevailing rate. Alternatively you can pay the fees upfront. 
 
 
If you already have an unsecured cash reserve limited to an existing mortgage product with us a further unsecured cash reserve is not guaranteed and will be subject to underwriting. The maximum unsecured cash reserve amount available to existing customers at any point in time will be £30,000. 
 
RISK CHARGE FEE 
 
We will pay any Risk Charge Fee on your behalf. You should refer to the section headed 'How much you can borrow' for details of what a Risk Charge is. 
 
AUTOMATIC BANK TRANSFERS 
 
Normally, all releases of together secured and unsecured credit facility funds will be through the Bank Automated Credit System (BACS). We do not make a charge for releasing funds through the BACS system. 
 
However, in those cases where extreme urgency is involved, 
 the solicitor acting for you may request that funds are released using 
 a same day automatic bank transfer (CHAPS). If funds are released by 
 CHAPS, a £30 transfer fee will be charged to your mortgage account following 
 completion. We will follow the instructions received from the solicitor 
 acting for you about the method that we should use in releasing funds. 
 
 
EARLY REPAYMENT CHARGE 
 
together allows you to repay your loan in full or in part at any time without incurring an Early Repayment Charge. When you repay your loan in full, interest will be charged up to and including the day on which the loan is repaid. 
If you fully repay the mortgage part of your together loan, the rate of interest charged to the unsecured credit facility arranged through the together product will immediately be changed to 3% above Northern Rock's Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate. 
Full repayment of the unsecured credit facility part of the together loan will not affect the rate of interest charged to the mortgage. 
If you fully 
 repay the mortgage part of your together loan or transfer to another mortgage product, including another together mortgage product, you will also be asked to repay any Help with Costs benefit. Please see section headed 'Help with Costs' option for details. 
 
ACCOUNT FEES 
 
The normal day to day management of together will usually be conducted free of additional charges. 
However, we do charge for providing some specific services and where these apply, our current charges are shown below. VAT is not usually payable on these fees but where VAT does apply this is stated. These charges may be varied. 
 
DEEDS RELATED
 
 Discharge 
 of Mortgage Fee
 Despatch of Title Deeds
Copy of Title Deeds
Safe and Sure scheme application* £85
£75
£35
£95 
 
*This service is free provided we arrange buildings and/or contents insurance cover for you. Please see "Keep The Benefits Once Your Mortgage Ends" leaflet for further information. 
 
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION 
 Reference
Second charge questionnaire
Copy of any previous quarterly statement
Completion of Student Grant Forms
 
 £65 (inc. VAT)
 £100 (inc. VAT)
 £10 (inc. VAT)
 £25
 
 
 
 
CHANGE OF MORTGAGE TERMS 
 Conversion to an interest only basis
 Amendment to any Investment Product
 Conversion to a capital & interest basis
 Substitution of a life policy or other
 Investment Product
 Removal of Guarantor (subject to our approval)
 Release of part security
 Transfer of equity
 Arranging own buildings insurance
 Subsequent change of buildings insurer
 Portability - increase of balance £60
 £60
 £60
 £60
 
 £125
 £100
 £125
 £25
 £20
 £250 
 
 
LETTINGS
 
You must obtain consent from us before letting your property. If you wish to let your property, please contact us on 0191 279 4828 where we will be pleased to discuss the options available to you. We can also detail any fees and charges applicable at this time. Any buildings and contents insurance cover we may be arranging for you will be reduced to buildings only cover if your property is let. 
 
INVESTMENT PRODUCT CHARGES 
 
If your mortgage is to be repaid using any type of investment product (such as an ISA) you will need to ascertain the level of payment that you will need to make to it. You must make payments to service the product directly to the product provider. 
 
PAYMENT CHARGE 
 
All loans must be repaid by Direct Debit or be subject to an annual charge (currently £25). The first charge will be debited to the loan account on completion of the mortgage and subsequently on the anniversary of completion. This charge will also apply where a Direct Debit is subsequently cancelled and replaced with another payment method. 
 
ARREARS AND POSSESSIONS 
 
We make a number of charges to cover the additional costs incurred by us in administering secured loans in arrears: Returned cheque
 Returned Direct Debit
 (second and subsequent) 
 Arrears 2 months and over*
 Arrears 3 months and over*
 Affidavit
 Instructing Solicitors to issue
 Possession proceedings
 Sale of property in possession
 (where a net surplus exists) 
 Security re-evaluation
 Possession Insurance Charge
 Commercial Loan Arrears Letter
 Litigation costs
 £30
 £30
 
 £25 per month
 £55 per month
 £30
 
 £30
 £250
 
 £50 inc. VAT
 £100
 £30
 Variable depending upon
 the work required 
 
* In the event of a mortgage being 2 monthly payments or more in arrears, a charge of £25 per month will be made for as long as the loan is at that arrears level. In the event of the loan being 3 monthly payments or more in arrears, a charge of £55 per month is made. These charges will be added to your loan balance, attracting interest from the end of the month in which they are made. 
Where the unsecured loan is in arrears, we will make the following charges: Returned cheque
 Returned Direct Debit
 Instructing solicitors to issue proceedings £10
 £10
 £30 
 
 
ADDITIONAL SERVICES 
 
On those occasions when we receive requests to provide additional services which fall outside of our normal mortgage or loan administration range, we reserve the right to make a reasonable charge for providing that service. In such cases you will be notified, in advance, of the charge that we intend to make. 
 
UNSECURED CREDIT FACILITY 
 
Normally, your additional borrowing requirements will be taken care of by using the unsecured credit facility which you will have applied for when arranging your together mortgage. We make no additional administration or arrangement charge when releasing your agreed unsecured loan funds to you. 
 
FLEXIBLE FEATURES 
 
Additionally, with the mortgage and unsecured credit facility you are able to overpay, underpay, request a refund of any mortgage overpayments or use the payment holiday facility - subject to the terms and conditions of these features. No additional administration or arrangement charge is made for the use of any of these facilities. 
 
GENERAL NOTES ON INTEREST CHARGES FOR together
 
The rate at which interest is charged will be shown in any formal offer or credit agreement issued to you. The interest rate is variable. Any subsequent changes will be notified to you in writing. 
Interest will be charged from the day the mortgage monies are sent to your solicitor/licensed conveyancer until the end of that first calendar month. Subsequent interest calculations are based on the amount owing at the end of each previous calendar month. 
Interest is charged to your loan account, in advance, at the beginning of each calendar month. 
Upon receipt of any loan payment or credit, the loan balance is reduced and the monthly interest charge will be adjusted, thereby providing an immediate benefit in the form of a reduced interest charge. 
Any unpaid fees/charges will attract interest charges from the actual date that the fee/charge is made. 
You will be asked to make an initial loan payment when legal completion of your mortgage has taken place. This represents the initial interest charged to your mortgage prior to your first full monthly payment becoming due. As this initial interest charge will not be collected with your monthly payments, you will need to make separate arrangements to pay it. 
An additional 3% above Northern Rock's Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate will be charged if you repay the mortgage but wish to retain the unsecured credit facility (see heading - No Early Repayment Charge). 
 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
 
together 
The together rates are effective 10.05.2002. The interest rate charged on together is currently 5.69%. (6.1% APR) for mortgages up to and including 75% of the lower of the purchase price or property's value, 5.79% P.A. (6.1% APR) for mortgages up to and including 90% of the lower of the purchase price or property's value and 5.84% P.A. (6.1% APR) for mortgages up to and including 95% of the lower of the purchase price or property's value. These rates are variable. The 95% loan to value product is guaranteed to be no more than 1.85% above the Bank of England Base Rate (currently 4.00%) until 1 January 2005. The 90% loan to value product will remain below the 95% loan to value product and the 75% loan to value product will remain below the 90% loan to value product both for the life of the loans. 
After the guarantee rate period has ended, the variable interest rate that will then apply for the whole of the remaining loan term is guaranteed to be below our Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate for existing customers. 
Representative example: A capital and interest secured loan of £54,000 over a 25 year term completing on 1.6.2002 (300 monthly payments), secured against a property being purchased for £60,000. 31 monthly secured loan payments of £341.87 (calculated at 5.79% 6.1% APR) followed by 269 monthly secured loan payments of £ 340.67 (rate assumed to be 5.75% ). Total amount payable £102,848.00. A capital and interest unsecured loan of £18,000 over a 25 year term completing on 1.6.2002. 31 monthly payments of £113.68 (calculated at 5.79% 6.1% APR), followed by 269 monthly payments of £113.28 (rate assumed to be 5.75% ). Total amount payable £33,933.00. 
 
Calculated to include an arrangement fee of £395. 
 Solicitors costs of £117.50 and a valuation fee of £235. For the purpose 
 of this example we have assumed that the applicant has not taken the 
 Help with Costs option. Both loans will be collected as one monthly 
 payment. APRs may vary depending on the repayment term chosen. 
 
Applications outside of normal lending criteria - if we are unable to accept your application for a mortgage on the terms shown on these pages, we may still be able to offer you a mortgage on slightly less favourable terms. In such cases the Help with Costs facility will not be offered. 
This page should be read in conjunction with the together product pages, together - in details pages. In addition, you should also have read those insurance sections relating to any of our insurance products in which you are interested. 
Northern Rock complies with the Association of British Insurers Code of Practice for the selling of General Insurance. 
The sections on our various insurance products tell you about the cover we can provide as well as the main exclusions which apply to the policy. You must read the sections and make sure the cover offered meets your needs. Only the policy documents provide full details of cover and specimen documents are available on request. We also provide details of our complaints procedures. 
By applying for a loan from Northern Rock you authorise Northern Rock to disclose any of the information provided by you, in obtaining references or making other enquiries and understand that Northern Rock may decline the application. 
You agree to be bound by Northern Rock's lending policy. 
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS 
 ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. 
 
A written quotation on loans can be obtained on request. Only available to persons of 21 years of age or over. (18 years or over for secondary applicant in the case of joint applications). Subject to status. Subject to our currently lending criteria and a satisfactory credit score. Northern Rock cannot advise its customers on their personal tax. 
If you do have queries about the tax implications of our products, you should contact your local tax office. The mortgage will be secured on your property and a suitable life policy may be required. 
The unsecured loan is not secured on your property. 
To help us maintain our service standards, we may record or monitor your calls. 
We are committed to an equal opportunities policy in our lending criteria and in the provision of finance to homebuyers and owners. 
The information contained on this website is correct at the time of going to print. Charges or fees may be changed, without prior notice, in the future. 
A copy of the Guide to Northern Rock's Internal Complaints Procedure leaflet is available on request.
© Northern Rock plc 2002. 
 return to main product section 
