
 
 
 
Home
 > RoI
 
Legal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Finances
 
Corporate Banking and Financial Markets
 
Small Business
 
EURO
 
What's New
 
Jobs in Ulster Bank Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Group Websites
Anytime Internet
Lombard & Ulster
NCB Direct
Trader Gold
 
 
 
 
Back to What's New
 
BUDGET 2001 - An Initial Assessment
Overall Assessment
This is a difficult Budget to analyse. 
It has lots of bits and pieces with little 
sign of an overall strategy other than 
to direct as many resources as possible 
towards the less well off and pay for a 
huge range of expenditure and some tax 
commitments in advance of the pending election. 
At the same time, the Minister strove hard 
to balance the books in what the Press 
have dubbed an accountant's Budget - the 
major surprise was that he managed to produce 
a surplus instead of the expected deficit. 
To do so, he resorted to a variety of stratagems 
not seen for a decade. The Minister dubbed 
this the fifth chapter in his book, a reference 
to his five budgets. He will be remembered 
for the radical and progressive overhaul 
of the tax system that the first four produced. 
His main failure was his inability to control 
(or get value for money for) spending - 
he set out to keep the growth in current 
spending to 4% p.a. but the outcome has 
been more than twice that. The negative 
consequences of this have been deferred 
for the moment but there is a potential 
unpleasant legacy for his successor or, 
indeed, for himself if he achieves his 
ambition to return as Minister. 
From an economic point of view, the 
General Government Balance (GGB) is the 
correct way of measuring the Budget and 
it is used for all EU comparisons. It is 
a broad concept which includes the Exchequer, 
various extra budgetary funds, the Social 
Insurance Fund and the Local Government 
sector. It came in at plus 0.7%, down from 
1.4% in 2001 and 4.5% in 2000. While the 
Budget itself was clearly more expansionary 
than expected, the Department of Finance 
have estimated (using the standard methodology 
which is not reliable in our case) that 
overall policy in 2002 is marginally contractionary 
after an expansionary boost of 3 percent 
of GDP in 2001. The 2001 budget went badly 
askew. Receipts were EUR2.4 billion short 
while spending overshot by EUR1 billion, 
causing the large surpluses of recent years 
to virtually disappear. 
The sting in the tail of the 2002 Budget 
shows up in the forecast GGB for 2003 assuming 
no change in policy - this shows a deficit 
of 0.5%. (The Exchequer deficit in traditional 
accounting terms would be £3 billion or 
2.2% of GDP). Moreover, this would be associated 
with a rebound in growth to within the 
5 - 6 % range that is sustainable in the 
medium term. This gives some idea of the 
extent to which spending has got out of 
control and does not sit easily with the 
Maastricht requirement that the Budget 
should aim for balance on average over 
a number of years. To bring it back to 
zero would require over EUR 600 million 
of net tax rises/spending cuts in the next 
Budget and there would be no one - off 
measures to resort to.
Having said that, there are grounds 
for optimism that this year's outturn could 
be better than expected. The Budget is 
based on growth forecasts that are identical 
to our own, viz. GDP of 3.9% and GNP, which 
is more relevant in a domestic context, 
of 3.5%. We are becoming slightly more 
optimistic in the light of developments 
in the US, where some positive straws in 
the wind are appearing, and the way that 
domestic spending by consumers is holding 
up even if it is trending down. The EU, 
on the other hand, appears to be faring 
worse than expected. All in all, we feel 
that GNP growth could beat the official 
forecast by, perhaps, half a percent and 
this would boost tax revenue. The tax revenue 
estimates, in any event, seem to be conservative 
- this would be a natural Dept of Finance 
reaction coming after a year in which they 
overestimated tax by no less than £2 billion! 
The other positive is the receipt of EUR 
165 million from the sale of ACC bank, 
announced yesterday but not mentioned in 
the budget speech. Receipts from the Central 
Bank may also exceed forecasts. While the 
Minister has highlighted the downside risks, 
there is a fighting chance that tax and 
other receipts will be up to EUR 500 million 
better than projected. Further spending 
slippage is, however, a distinct possibility 
in an election year.
Economic Backdrop
The official post Budget economic outlook 
for 2002, with which we broadly agree, 
is as follows:
 
2001
 
2002
 
2003
 
 
%
 
%
 
%
 
GNP
 
5.2
 
3.5
 
5.0
 
GDP
 
6.8
 
3.9
 
5.8
 
CPI
 
4.9
 
4.2
 
2.8
 
Emp
 
2.8
 
1.4
 
1.6
 
Unemp
 
4.0
 
na
 
na
 
GGB
 
1.4
 
0.7
 
-0.5
 
Debt %
 
35.8
 
33.7
 
33.8
 
Exchequor Bal
 
0.3
 
0.1
 
-2.2
 
Principal Features
- Current spending +11.6%, Health 
+15% and Social Welfare +25%; (+14.3% in 01)
- Tax revenue + 8.6%; (2.4% in 01)
- Capital spending + 11.1%; (27.8% in 01)
- National Dev Plan Infrastructure 
spend to 02 stated to be ahead of target
- Income tax bands and allowances + 8 to 10% ( +17% in 01)
- Child Benefit + 35 to 43% ( +54 to 58% in 01)
- Old age Pensions + 9 to 11% ( + 10 to 15% in 01)
- No change in Income Tax or PRSI 
rates for employees (22 and 44% rates reduced 
by 2% each and PRSI 4.5% rate by 0.5% in 01)
- Employers' 12% rate cut to 10.75% 
@ cost of EUR 347 million ( Ceiling abolished 
in 01 to yield EUR 215 million)
- Bacon measures on Investment Property 
reversed; interest now allowable, penal 
stamp duty abolished and replaced with 
standard sliding scale of 0 to 9%.
Tax Increases
To pay for these expansionary measures, 
the Minister introduced a variety of tax 
increases and what have been described 
as "raids" on funds and accumulated balances.
The most controversial of these was 
the reversal of the 1 % reduction in VAT 
announced last year. This yielded EUR194 
million but also added 0.9% to the CPI 
- hence the high forecast inflation in 
2002. This smacks of desperation and effectively 
kills hopes that Ireland might become a 
hub for international e-commerce as our 
standard 21% rate is well above most other countries.
Excise duty increases raised EUR 255 
million but were curiously lopsided. Cigarettes 
go up by 10p, raising the price of a packet 
of 20 by 2.6% or about a quarter of what 
was speculated. The official explanation 
is that further tax rises would have a 
disproportionate impact on the CPI. Petrol 
and diesel, on the other hand, got hit 
for 5p a litre, raising the pump price 
by around 10%. This and the VAT are the 
two most negative aspects of the Budget 
because of the impact on business and consumer 
prices. 
As planned, the rate of Corporation 
tax is being reduced from 20 to 16% and 
will go to 12.5% in 2003. CT is the only 
major tax that is paid in arrears and the 
due date is being advanced by 7 months 
on a phased basis over 5 years. The cash 
flow gain to the Exchequer is enormous 
- about EUR4.8 billion of which EUR780 
million will accrue in 2002. Business will 
find it hard to complain given we have 
one of the lowest CT rates in the EU and 
seem to have been the only country that 
was not on a current year payment basis. 
The opportunity cost is about EUR50 million 
per annum. This blow will be softened by 
the cut in employers' PRSI. 
Raids on Funds
Having exhausted the tax possibilities, 
the Minister then resorted to more creative 
measures. 
The first is described as "Euro changeover 
receipts" and amounts to EUR610 million. 
The replacement of the Irish notes with 
euros is expected to generate a "windfall" 
for the Central Bank in 2002. This appears 
to refer to the likelihood that not all 
of the old notes will actually be presented 
for exchange thereby enabling the Bank 
to boost profits by bringing 
reserves to book. In the normal course, 
up to 90% of this would filter through 
to the Exchequer in 2003 but the Minister 
is accelerating the process and, subject 
to the agreement of the Central Bank Board, 
has allowed for an additional EUR240 million 
from this source. This estimate is inevitably 
tentative and appears to assume that about 
5% of the notes will not be returned. In 
the event, the figure could be twice that 
- it is not clear if the Minister would 
seek to get the higher amount if it materialises, 
or that the Bank Board would agree to release 
them early, but it is another potential 
source of additional revenue.
In addition, he has allowed for a further 
EUR370 million from the proceeds of the 
coin issue. The Maastricht Treaty provides 
that the proceeds of the coin issue are 
the property of the various Governments. 
This has not been the case in Ireland and 
the Department have no doubt had their 
eye on these funds since the issue surfaced, 
probably when the ECB was being set up 
a few years ago. When the Central Bank 
was established in 1942, it's paid-up capital 
was only EUR30,474 and possibly to supplement 
this, it was allowed to retain the proceeds 
from the issue of coin. By end 2000, these 
amounted to EUR297.4 million. The Minister 
intends to introduce legislation to bring 
us into line with other countries and, 
thereby, benefit to the tune of EUR370 
million in 2002. 
The change in coin income rectifies 
a genuine anomaly and cannot be equated 
to a "raid on the Central Bank" as some 
commentators sought to do last night. (However, 
those of us who had to pay marginal income 
tax rates of over 80% in years gone by 
will wish that someone had thought of it 
then!). The acceleration of the note proceeds 
is a piece of opportunism.
This makes the Irish Government one 
of the few to profit from the introduction 
of the euro. The costs of the euro changeover
to them are estimated at 
EUR127 million whereas it now stands to 
benefit to the tune of EUR610 million. 
Costs to the banking sector are on a par 
with those for the Government but there 
is no one to raid!
Next, the Minister transferred EUR635 
million from the Social Insurance Fund. 
This Fund was set up in 1953 to receive 
the proceeds of Pay Related Social Insurance 
(PRSI) and to pay out the associated benefits 
on the insurance principle. It has not 
operated as intended for the following 
reasons:
- PRSI is compulsory and the eventual 
pension is little different from the non 
- contributory one
- When the Fund is short, the difference 
is made good from general taxation - this 
is normally the case and EUR2 billion was 
contributed by the taxpayer between 1957 
and 1996
However, strong PRSI receipts have 
meant that no contribution has been necessary 
since 1997 and substantial surpluses have 
built up enabling the Minister to take 
EUR635 million from them. Even so, the 
Fund will still have EUR1.2 billion at 
end 2002 with a further surplus of EUR1.4 
billion forecast over the following two 
years. Balances like this matter only in 
the context of the narrow Exchequer definition 
of the public finances. The wider General 
Government definition merges these funds 
and incorporates the annual surpluses on 
them - this is one reason why it shows 
a considerably higher surplus than the 
traditional Exchequer balance on which 
most of the Budget day attention is focused. 
In a real sense, therefore, these funds 
are already taken into account in any discussions 
that are held in Brussels.
The Minister had intended to rationalise 
the PRSI system but failed to do so because 
of " the changed situation in the public 
finances". We can only speculate as to 
what he might have done, but clearly it 
would have cost him money which would have been
good news for the tax payer. The best outcome 
would be to merge PRSI and Income Tax as 
there is really no difference between them 
in which case he would have had a further 
EUR1.2 billion at his disposal. This would 
be quite controversial and probably not 
palatable politically as it would see the 
marginal IT rate rise from 42 to 46%, assuming 
no change in PRSI rates. Meanwhile, raiding 
the Fund for EUR 635 million is not worth 
getting excited about - all the Minister is doing 
is taking back about 30% of the taxpayers' earlier
contributions to the fund. 
The next such Fund to get hit was the 
Capital Services Redemption Account. This 
is another non-Exchequer account to which 
a yearly annuity is paid and used to redeem 
and pay interest on debt. Surpluses had 
accumulated in the Account as the NTMA 
made savings on debt service and the Minister 
did not take them back into the Exchequer. 
The Minister used EUR56 million of them 
to reduce 2001 Exchequer spending (this 
was much less than the EUR508 million he 
said he would use a year ago but no one 
noticed that then or now), EUR 292 million 
to reduce 2002 spending in the Pre - Budget 
Estimates and a further EUR 208 million 
on Budget day. This leaves EUR250 million, 
which will be used in 2003 and is incorporated 
into the GGB forecasts for that year (as 
is the bringing forward of a second 20% 
of Corporation Tax and, of course, the 
further surplus on the Social Insurance 
Fund). Again, there is nothing particularly 
wrong with this though it would be more 
transparent if any such surpluses were 
brought back to the Exchequer in the year 
in which they accrue. 
Government accounting is a nightmare. 
Perhaps Mr Mc Creevy, who is an accountant, 
will be tempted to reform it if he returns 
for another term.
Pat Mc Ardle
Head of Economic Research
6 December 2001
 
 
