
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group Executive Committee is chaired by
 Matthew Barrett, Group Chief Executive, and is responsible for managing Barclays business
 on a day-to-day basis.
 
 
- Mathew W Barrett 
 
- Bob Diamond 
 
- Gary Dibb
 
- Gary Hoffman
 
- Bob Hunter 
 
- Chris Lendrum 
 
- Robert Nimmo 
 
- David
 Roberts 
 
- John Stewart 
 
- John Varley 
 
- David Weymouth 
 
 
 
 Matthew W Barrett
 Group Chief Executive
 
Matt Barrett was appointed Group Chief Executive and joined the Board on 1st October 1999. He joined Barclays PLC from Bank of Montreal where he was Chairman and, until February 1999, Chief Executive Officer. He joined the Bank of Montreal in 1962 and during his career held a variety of senior management positions in different areas within the bank, including Retail Banking, International Banking and Treasury. He was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 1987, Chief Executive Officer in 1989 and elected Chairman of the Board in 1990. In 1994, he became an Officer of the Order of Canada, the country's highest civilian honour, and in 1995 he was awarded the title of Canada's Outstanding CEO of the Year. He has been a non-executive Director of The Molson Companies Limited since 1992 and was also a non-executive Director of The Seagram Company Limited from 1995 until 4th December 2000. He is a member of the Board Risk Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bob Diamond
 Chief Executive, Barclays Capital
 
Bob Diamond was appointed Chief
 Executive, Barclays Capital in October 1997. He joined BZW in July
 1996 as Chief Executive, Global Markets and was appointed to the
 Group Executive Committee in September 1997.
 
Before joining BZW, he was with
 Credit Suisse First Boston, where he was vice chairman and head of
 Global Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange, a member of the
 Executive Board and Operating Committee, and a member of the board
 of Credit Suisse Financial Products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gary Dibb
 Group Chief Administrative Officer
 
Gary Dibb is responsible for
 Human Resources, Marketing, Communications, Strategic Planning and
 Group Property Services, as well as for the implementation of
 value-based management, for internal consulting, and for a variety
 of other organisation-wide initiatives. He joined the Group
 Executive Committee on 1st February 2000 on his appointment as
 Group Director of Strategic Planning and Corporate Development.
 
Prior to joining Barclays he was
 Vice-Chairman of Bank of Montreal. Before that, he owned and
 operated Meridien Consulting Group Ltd, a strategy and
 organisational consulting firm he founded in 1985.
 
Educated in Canada, the US, and
 Switzerland, he holds a BA, MA, and PhD in organisational
 psychology and an MBA in Finance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gary
 Hoffman
 Chief Executive, Barclaycard
 
Gary Hoffman was appointed Chief
 Executive, Barclaycard in September 2001 when he also joined the
 Group Executive Committee. He joined Barclays in 1983 as a
 graduate in Economics from Cambridge University and has held a
 variety of management positions and project leadership
 roles. 
 
Prior to his appointment to
 Barclaycard, Gary was on the Executive Committee of Retail
 Financial Services and a member of Group Operating Committee. His
 responsibilities within Retail Financial Services included
 Branches, Telephone and Internet Banking and the Barclays
 Financial Management regulated sales force. He also had
 responsibility for Marketing within Retail Financial
 Service. 
 
Gary is a member of the Compaq
 Financial Advisory Board.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bob Hunter
 Chief Executive Officer, Barclays Private Clients
 
Bob Hunter joined Barclays in May 1999 to head up the newly formed Wealth Management division. He joined the Group Executive Committee in July 1999.
 
Bob spent 28 years with Chase Manhattan Bank. The first 20 were on the wholesale and investment banking side of including 12 years in London where he was the Senior Officer for Europe. During the last 8 years of Bob's career at Chase he was responsible for Global Consumer Financial Services including their high net worth and affluent banking activities in the US and abroad. In 1996, at the time of the merger between Chase and Chemical Bank, Bob left Chase to become President of Standard and Poors' Information Service. In this capacity he was a member of the McGraw-Hill Executive Committee. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chris Lendrum
 Chief Executive, Corporate Banking
 
Chris Lendrum joined the Group
 Executive Committee in September 1996 and was appointed to his
 present position in April 1998. He joined Barclays in 1969. He was
 appointed an Executive Director of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank
 PLC with effect from 5th June 1998.
 
Prior to this he was Managing
 Director, Business Banking, UK Banking Services, a position he had
 held since April 1995. His other previous positions include Deputy
 Managing Director of Barclays Banking Division, Regional Director,
 North London and Executive Vice President, Barclays Bank of New
 York.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Robert
 Nimmo
 Group Risk Director
 
Robert Nimmo joined Barclays in
 January 2002 as Group Risk Director when he was also appointed to
 the Group Executive Committee. Prior to joining Barclays he was
 Chief Risk Officer of First Union Corporation, in Charlotte, North
 Carolina. He was a member of the Corporation's Operating
 Committee, supervising all Risk Management activities for all risk
 types across the Corporation. In 1993 he was Chief Risk Officer of
 Westpac Banking Corporation, Sydney, Australia, a position he held
 until 2000. During 1969-1993 he held various assignments in Senior
 Business Management and Risk Management positions for
 Citicorp/Citibank in the US, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong,
 Philippines and Greece.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 David Roberts
 Chief Executive, Personal Financial Services
 
David Roberts became Chief Executive, Personal Financial Services in June 2001, when he was also appointed to the Barclays Group Executive Committee. 
 
Prior to this he was Chief Executive, Business Banking, responsible for all Barclays SME businesses across the UK and Europe. Since joining Barclays in 1983, David has also been Managing Director, Markets & Solutions, responsible for marketing, product management and 2 pan-European Asset Finance businesses. Previously, he was Programme Director, Corporate Market Programme, accountable for the change management programme that designed and implemented a new business and operational model for Barclays small, medium and large corporate customer businesses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 John Stewart 
 Deputy Group Chief Executive
 
Following the acquisition of Woolwich plc by Barclays in October
 2000, John was appointed Deputy Group Chief Executive. He is specifically responsible for
 Barclays Private Clients (BPC) and the combined operation of Personal Financial Services
 (PFS), which now includes the Woolwich business. John was appointed and Executive
 Director of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC with effect from 25th October 2000, he is
 also a member of the Group Executive Committee.
 
John Stewart joined Woolwich in 1977. He started his
 career in the branch network and moved on to hold a number of senior positions, including
 General Manager Financial Services and General Manager Retail Operations. He became
 Insurance Services Manager in 1986 and, in 1989, started Woolwich Independent Financial
 Advisory Services, now one of the UK's largest IFA businesses. He was also responsible for
 the launch of Woolwich Unit Trust Managers and Woolwich Life Assurance Company. He was
 appointed to The Woolwich board in January 1995 and became its Group Chief Executive in
 July 1996. He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and an Associate of the
 Chartered Insurance Institute.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 John Varley
 Finance Director
 
John Varley was appointed Finance
 Director of Barclays PLC on 9th November 2000. He joined the Group Executive Committee in
 September 1996 and was appointed an Executive Director of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank
 PLC on 5th June 1998.
 
Prior to this John Varley had been Chief Executive,
 Retail Financial Services from April 1998 to October 2000, having previously been Chairman
 of the Asset Management Division since 1995. His previous positions include Deputy Chief
 Executive of BZW's Equity Division and head of BZW's offices in South East Asia. He joined
 the Corporate Finance Department of Barclays Merchant Bank in 1982.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 David Weymouth
 Chief Information Officer
 
David Weymouth joined the Group
 Executive Committee on 28th February 2000 when he was appointed
 Chief Information Officer. He is responsible for managing the
 newly formed Barclays Service Provision, which brings together
 technology capabilities from across the Group with a mandate to
 build a new e-enabled infrastructure for Barclays. David has been
 with Barclays for 23 years.
 
Prior to becoming Chief
 Information Officer, he was Managing Director, Service Provision
 for Retail and Corporate Banking where he had responsibility for
 IT across the two businesses. Before that he held a number of
 other positions within Barclays including Chief Operating Officer,
 Corporate Banking, with responsibility for the operational
 performance of the Corporate Bank as well as IT and operations. He
 has also held the post of UK Risk Management Director where he was
 accountable for risk strategy in the corporate and small business
 segments of Barclays.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
