Bank of Scotland
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	home >
	corporate banking products >
	electronic banking 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Home 
	
	
	Relationship	Banking 
	
	
	Corporate Banking 
Products 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Corporate Deposit
 Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Client Banking Cash Management Service 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Payment Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Electronic Banking
 Services 
	
	
	
	
	HOBS Support
 and Fees 
	
	
	
	
	HOBS Helpdesk 
Online 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Specialist Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Asset Finance 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Specialist Funding
Solutions 
	
	
	International 
	
	
	Corporate Finance
 Newsletter 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Too busy running your business to worry about fitting into traditional banking hours? Tired of signing all those cheques? Unsure of your up-to-date balances? Our electronic banking services give you control and flexibility over the management of your money. We offer 2 services:
Business HOBS® 
Electronic banking from your home and office via PC, including balance check of all your bank, credit card and foreign currency accounts, transfer of funds and payment of bills or salaries by BACS (Bankers' Automated Clearing System).
Corporate HOBS® 
All the features of Business HOBS, plus same-day CHAPS (Clearing Houses Automated Payment System) payments and International payments and drafts.
Controlling your finances 
	
	
	 
	
	
	HOBS enables you to do much more than just access information. With HOBS in your office you can: 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Access comprehensive, up-to-the-minute information on all your sterling, foreign currency and credit card accounts. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	View ledger, cleared today and projected cleared balance for sterling accounts, and hold historical information for as long as you like. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	See the forward position for value dated payments in currency accounts. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Initiate BACS payments to pay salaries, wages, suppliers etc. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Initiate same day CHAPS payments (with Corporate HOBS). 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Initiate International (SWIFT) payments. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Transfer money instantly between your accounts. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Order International Drafts. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Check all your standing orders and direct debits. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Locate specific transactions quickly using a range of search criteria. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Open a special HOBS Investment Account to make surplus funds work really hard for you. 
	
	
	
	Convenience 
	
	With HOBS, you can forget the rush of having to visit your branch for routine transactions and having to fit your business into banking hours. Control your accounts whenever it suits you, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
	Cost Effectiveness 
	
	Connecting to HOBS costs the price of a local phone call from anywhere in the UK, making HOBS extremely cost-effective to use. Further built in features, such as off-line processing, payment preparation and archiving, mean that the amount of time you need to be connected to HOBS is kept to a minimum. For other charges that might apply, see the Tariff page.
	Security 
	
A series of advanced, built-in security features maintained in your PC allow you to restrict access to designated users, and to specify exactly what information each individual can access and what transactions they may carry out, even to set payment limits, allowing you to combine flexibility with security. In addition, data is encrypted during transmission and is password-protected while stored on your hard disk. A fuller description of the security measures built in to HOBS is available on the interactive presentation, which can be downloaded.
	Priority Payments (Corporate HOBS only) 
	
When you have urgent payments to make, the CHAPS function allows you to send funds for same day credit subject to a cut-off time. CHAPS payments instructed through Corporate HOBS are considerably less expensive than standard CHAPS payments and, while they are easy to prepare and authorise, still maintain a high degree of security. Compare that to having one of your staff rush down to the bank with a paper instruction to meet an earlier deadline.
Corporate HOBS offers you a convenient and simple method of instructing your International payments. From your office, you can send funds around the world using priority or normal processing. If circumstances dictate that an International draft has to be sent, you can request one through Corporate HOBS. It will be delivered to you for sending on to the appropriate destination. You can instruct International payments and drafts from either sterling or foreign currency accounts subject to a cut-off time, and the payments will be processed according to the terms of the product being used.
	Flexibility 
	
HOBS has been designed to dovetail easily with your existing financial software, giving you a choice of account reporting and payment processing facilities and a smooth transfer of account information to and from other packages such as SAGE® and Pegasus®. The BACS Direct facility is ideal for the distribution of wages, salaries or expenses, and the template function saves you from having to re-key similar data each week / month.
A database of beneficiaries is maintained on your PC with details being added, amended or deleted simply and easily whenever required. You can, however, restrict who has the ability to update details.
	Ease of use 
	
You'll be discovering the power of HOBS in no time at all. Simple to install and use, HOBS utilises Windows technology using all the standard features like pull-down menus, dialog boxes and simple point-and-click icons with which you are already familiar. Full colour text and graphic displays make HOBS straightforward and pleasurable to use.
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Structured Finance
	European market leader in debt for buy-outs 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Relationship Banking
	Ongoing support for your company 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Contact us: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Offices and contacts 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Email 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Other Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	HBOS plc Group Info 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Business Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Treasury Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	EURO Services 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
