
The Co-operative Bank plc
 
	
	
Terms and Conditions
	
Student Current Account
	
 
 
	 
	
	 
	
Once you have read and accepted the Terms and Conditions, please click 'I Accept' to proceed with the application.
	
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	
	1. DEFINITIONS In these Conditions 'Account' means the Student Current Account operated by the Cardholder with the bank for use of the Card, 'the bank' means The Co-operative Bank p.l.c., PO Box 101, 1 Balloon Street, Manchester M60 4EP and its successors and assigns. 'Card' means the bank's Visa Delta debit card or Electron Card (as appropriate) issued at any time to a Cardholder. A Visa Delta debit card shall only be available to students who were born and reside in the United Kingdom. 'Cardholder' means the person to whom or for whose use a Card is issued. 'Card Transaction' means the purchase of goods or the obtaining of services or cash with the use of the Card whether or not a sale or cash advance voucher is signed by the Cardholder. 'PIN' means the personal identification number issued to the Cardholder.
	
2. USE OF THE CARD The Card must be signed by the Cardholder immediately on receipt and may only be used:
	
(i) by that Cardholder
	
(ii) subject to the terms of this Agreement current at the time of use
	
(iii) within the credit balance and any undrawn facility on the Account
	
(iv) to obtain the facilities and benefits from time to time made available by the bank in respect of the use of the Card all of which are made available at the discretion of the bank and may be withdrawn at any time. The Cardholder will be notified of any such withdrawal
	
(v) during the validity period (if any) embossed on the Card 
	
(vi) subject to the right of the bank, in its absolute discretion and without prior notice, at any time to withdraw the right to use the Card for, or to refuse any request for authorisation of, any particular Card Transaction and to publish any such withdrawal or refusal. In deciding whether to authorise any particular Card Transaction the bank may take into account in calculating the funds available any outstanding Card Transaction, any authorisation already given for a prospective Card Transaction and any funds which the bank in its own discretion may deem to have credited or debited to the Account.
	
3. PAYMENT The Cardholder authorises the bank to debit his/her/their Account with the amount of all Card Transactions and any other liabilities of the Cardholder to the bank under this Agreement by the Cardholder. The Cardholder will be liable to pay the bank all amounts so debited whether or not a sale or cash advance voucher is signed by the Cardholder.
	
4. The amount of any Card Transaction in a currency other than sterling will be converted at a rate of exchange determined by the bank for the date when the Card Transaction is debited to the Account and will be subject to an additional 2.75% foreign transaction fee.
	
5. The Cardholder irrevocably authorises the bank to debit to the Account each banking day (in priority to all drawings or debits) whether by electronic transfer or otherwise:
	
(i) the amount of any Card Transaction notified to the bank
	
(ii) the amount of any payments authorised by the bank for a prospective Card Transaction (whether or not such payments are made)
	
(iii) where the Account has been debited by the amount of the payment so authorised, such debit will be cancelled only if the bank receives notification satisfactory to it that the transaction to which the authorisation relates has not taken place or has been cancelled (in which event the authorisation shall also cease to have effect).
	
6. A handling charge of 2% (min £2) of the amount of the advance will be debited to the Account where cash is advanced on the Card via a Visa cash dispenser or via a Visa authorised bank branch.
	
7. WITHDRAWAL OF USE OF THE CARD (i) the bank may if the Cardholder is in breach of the terms of this Agreement or the terms of any facility provided on the account, without notice, cancel or suspend the right to use the card entirely or in respect of specific facilities or refuse to re-issue, renew or replace any Card without in any case affecting the Cardholders obligations under this Agreement which shall continue in force.
	
(ii) The Card remains the property of the bank at all times. On request all or any Cards issued for use on the Account must be returned immediately to the bank or to any person acting for the bank.
	
8. TERMINATION The Cardholder may terminate this Agreement for the use of the Card by written notice to the bank. Any such termination shall only be effective on the return to the bank of all Cards issued and the payment of all liabilities of the Cardholder under this Agreement. Until such termination the bank may re-issue Cards from time to time in accordance with this Agreement. The bank may terminate this Agreement for use of the Card by written notice to the Cardholder. Any such termination shall be effective upon receipt of such written notice by the Cardholder. The Cardholder shall return to the bank all Cards issued and pay all liabilities under this Agreement following receipt of such written notice.
	
9. SAFEGUARDING THE CARD AND PIN (i) The Cardholder will exercise all possible care to ensure the safety of the Card and will prevent the PIN from becoming known to any other person. The Cardholder will destroy the advice of the PIN immediately after receipt and will ensure that any record of the PIN is unidentifiable as such and is kept entirely separate from the Card. The Cardholder will not disclose the Card number to any third party except for the purpose of a Card Transaction or when reporting the actual loss or theft of the Card.
	
(ii) If the Card is lost, stolen or for any reason liable to misuse, or if the PIN is disclosed in breach of this condition, the Cardholder must immediately notify The Co-operative Bank p.l.c., P.O. Box 150, Delf House, Skelmersdale, Lancashire WN8 6NY (Tel. 0845 600 6000). If this notification is given orally, it should not take effect unless confirmed in writing to the bank at the above address within seven days. Until the bank receives effective notification, the Cardholder will be liable (subject to any statutory limitations) in respect of any use of the Card, but that liability shall not exceed £25 unless the Card has been used by a person who has acquired possession of it with the Cardholders consent. After the bank has been effectively notified, the Cardholders liability for any subsequent use of the Card other than by the Cardholder will cease.
	
 
 
	
	(iii) The Cardholder will give the bank all the information in the Cardholder's possession as to the circumstances of the loss, theft or misuse of the Card, or disclosure of the PIN and take all steps deemed necessary by the bank to assist in the recovery of a missing Card. In the event of such loss, theft, misuse or disclosure being suspected, the bank may provide the Police with any information it considers relevant. If a Card is reported as lost, stolen or liable to	misuse, that Card must not subsequently be used but must be destroyed by cutting it up into pieces.
	
10. REFUNDS AND CLAIMS (i) The Account will only be credited with a refund in respect of a Card Transaction if the bank receives a refund voucher or other refund verification acceptable to it. No claim by a Cardholder against a third party may be the subject of a defence or counter claim against the bank. No rights of a Cardholder against the bank may be assigned or otherwise disposed of.
	
(ii) the bank shall not be liable in any way if the Card is not honoured by a third party.
	
11. VARIATION OF THIS AGREEMENT the bank may so far as permitted by law and not so as to adversely affect the rights of the Cardholder vary this Agreement at any time or times whether or not a similar variation is made to the Agreement(s) with any other Cardholder. Subject to the requirements of statute, notification of any such variation shall be given to the Cardholder by the bank either in writing or by publication of a notice in such means as the bank may select and a variation so notified shall be binding on the Cardholder. In particular, the bank may impose a charge for the Card or any service provided under or in connection with this Agreement from time to time. The bank does not undertake that facilities available to Cardholders as a result of arrangements between the bank and third parties will continue indefinitely.
	
12. CHEQUE GUARANTEE A Cardholder holding a current account with The Co-operative Bank may use the Visa Delta debit card as a Visa Debit Card provided that the Cardholder: only uses the Visa Delta debit card to guarantee cheques drawn on an account with The Co-operative Bank; signs the cheque in the presence of the payee; ensures that the payee writes the Card number on the reverse of the cheque; limits such use to a cheque for an amount not exceeding the sum as advised to the Cardholder from time to time by the bank and printed on the Card; does not issue more than any one such guaranteed cheque in respect of any one transaction; does not issue a cheque against the guarantee in excess of any credit balance on the account except in accordance with a separate agreement with the bank; will not for any reason countermand payment of any cheque so guaranteed notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension of the right to use the Visa Delta debit card or any cancellation or termination of this Agreement and may not use this facility outside the United Kingdom. The bank may debit any such cheque to the cheque account without reference to the Cardholder and even though the cheque contains irregularities.
	
13. GENERAL (i) the bank shall not be liable to the Cardholder if it is unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, nor shall the Cardholder's liability to make payment under condition 3 be discharged if the bank is unable to debit the Account due (directly or indirectly) to the closure of the Account or the failure of any machine, data processing system or transmission link or to industrial dispute or anything outside the control of the bank, its agents or sub-contractors.
	
The bank will always endeavour to advise the Cardholder of the position. Details of Card Transactions will be incorporated within the Cardholder's Account statement.
	
(ii) The Cardholder shall immediately notify in writing the bank at the address given in condition 9 of any change of name or address.
	
(iii) This Agreement is subject to English Law unless the Cardholder lives in Scotland, when Scottish Law will apply.
	
1. All credits mandated automatically into your Account, ie salaries, wages, pensions, etc. will obtain their value on the day of receipt. All other credits passed into the account do not represent value until cleared through the banking system and this typically takes 3 business days. The balance shown on your Account statements may include credits which have not been cleared through the banking system, so technically you may be overdrawn although this does not appear to be the case on the statement.
	
2. Interest on any debit balances is calculated on a daily basis and charged to your account on a monthly basis.
	
3. Overdrawn balances are allowed with prior agreement between you and us at our discretion provided you were born and reside in the United Kingdom (which includes the Channel Islands and Isle of Man). We reserve the right to charge for any additional work undertaken. Please refer to the Account tariff guide for details.
	
4. Details of Current Accounts for Students service charges are shown in the Account Tariff guide. Confirmation of these charges and current interest rates can be obtained by contacting your local Co-operative Bank Branch or by writing to the registered address below.
	
5. Current Account cheques can be guaranteed by using either the bank's Visa Delta debit card or combined Visa Credit Card/Cheque Guarantee facility.
	
6. We reserve the right to decline any application. Written details of all our lending services are available on request. Credit and/or loan facilities referred to in this leaflet or accompanying literature are NOT available to minors.
	
7. We reserve the right to vary these Terms and Conditions (so far as permitted by law and not so as to adversely affect your rights) and account charges at any time and to notify you accordingly, by writing in advance, or by notification in the national press.
	
8. You may terminate this Agreement by written notice to us and we reserve the right to serve not less than one months notice for you to terminate this Agreement. Please note you will remain liable to repay any overdraft balance or outstanding interest and charges.
	
9. This Agreement is subject to English Law, unless the account holder lives in Scotland, when Scottish Law will apply.
 
Once you have read and accepted the Terms and Conditions, please click 'I Accept' to proceed with the application.
	
 
 
 
	
	 
 
