Bank of Scotland
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	home >
	corporate banking products >
	client banking cash management service >
	benefits 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Home 
	
	
	Relationship	Banking 
	
	
	Corporate Banking 
Products 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Corporate Deposit
 Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Client Banking Cash Management Service 
	
	
	
	
	Benefits 
	
	
	
	
	System Requirements 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Payment Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Electronic Banking
 Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Specialist Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Asset Finance 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Specialist Funding
Solutions 
	
	
	International 
	
	
	Corporate Finance
 Newsletter 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	The benefits to corporate customers of using the Bank of Scotland Client Banking Cash Management System are many. Our knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our depth of experience combine with our powerful technical systems and support to provide corporate customers with a most effective solution to their cash management needs.
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Flexibility 
	
	
	 
	Security 
	
	
	 
	Partnership 
	
	
	 
	Support 
	
	
	 
	User Benefits 
	
	
	 
	Client Benefits 
	
	
	
	Flexibility - the number of individual accounts that can be accommodated by the system is almost unlimited. Up to 5 different deposit and 4 debit interest rate bands can be allocated to those individual accounts, with direct access to funds on deposit allowed.
Individual accounts can be opened by the corporate customer either on a designated account or in the client's own name, with a third party mandate giving the corporate customer full authority to operate the account.
The accounts are operated within the virtual branch as interest-bearing current accounts with the deposit interest rate being set by the corporate customer in agreement with the Bank. The corporate customer can earn an interest turn based on the aggregate deposit balance within their virtual branch.
The Bank handles all accounting and reporting to the Inland Revenue with appropriate certificates for the tax year provided for each account.
	Security - as expected from a major UK Bank, the Cash Management Service gives both corporate customers and individual clients peace of mind. Varying levels of access are available with a secure combination of identification numbers and security passwords to ensure system access only at the authorised level.
	Partnership - Bank of Scotland makes an ideal partner, with a reputation for technological innovation. This is reflected in advanced systems with a high level of support and service which are continually reviewed and upgraded. Ownership of the individual client remains with the corporate customer at all times and the Bank undertakes not to cross-sell products without prior consent from the corporate customer.
	Support - each corporate customer is allocated a dedicated Project Manager, providing support and access to the services necessary for the successful implementation of the Cash Management Service. Specialist administration and systems teams provide on-going support and training.
Following the implementation, a Relationship Manager will be assigned to each corporate customer and will act as a personal contact going forward. In addition to dealing with issues relating to the Cash Management Service, the Relationship Manager will be available to assist with specific marketing initiatives and with the delivery of additional deposit and lending-based products if required.
	User benefits - the Client Banking Cash Management Service offers significant business benefits for the user, including:
 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Improved income returns - earning interest on pooled balances. 
	
	
	 
	Improved client retention - by offering a more comprehensive, added-value service. 
	
	
	 
	Increased administrative efficiency - by integrating with your systems. 
	
	
	 
	Simpler management of client funds - with easier access to up-to-date account information. 
	
	
	
	Client Benefits - the service also provides excellent benefits for clients, including:
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	A more efficient, speedier service - as all the information needed is easily at hand and up to date. 
	
	
	 
	Access to the account - clients can withdraw monies by cheque or electronic transfer if the corporate client wishes. (control remains with the corporate) 
	
	
	 
	Access to borrowing facilities - a wide range of tailored products are available. 
	
	
	 
	Access to additional banking services - including investment accounts. 
	
	
	
	Contact our Client Banking team for more information.
	
	
	
	back to top 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Relationship Banking
	Ongoing support for your company 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Fund Investments
	Limited partner investments in funds 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Contact us: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Offices and contacts 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Email 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Other Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	HBOS plc Group Info 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Business Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Treasury Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	EURO Services 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
