
About Birmingham Midshires
About Birmingham Midshires
Birmingham Midshires, today part of Halifax plc is based at Wolverhampton in the West Midlands. It employs over 2000 people and manages assets in excess of £10 billion.
The branch network is concentrated in the core areas of the West Midlands, North West and South West. The Pendeford headquarters also provides a range of post and telephone savings accounts and services.
Birmingham Midshires, established in 1849, is the result of the amalgamation over the years of some 50 building societies, including the Liverpool and Birmingham & Bridgwater Building Societies.
 
In April 1999 Birmingham Midshires became a part of Halifax plc with 
 its own brand, branches and product range. In September 2001, Halifax 
 and the Bank of Scotland merged to form a new force in banking - HBOS 
 plc. For further information about the HBOS Group plc, please 
 click here.
Birmingham Midshires mission is:
"We will be recognised as an outstanding financial services business delivering customer and shareholder value through excellent service, sustainable profit and growth"
 
 Birmingham Midshires is a division of Halifax plc. Registered in England 
 No. 2367076. Registered Office: Trinity Road, Halifax, West Yorkshire 
 HX1 2RG. 
 Birmingham Midshires Financial Services Limited, registered in England No 2319620, Registered Office: Trinity Road, Halifax, West Yorkshire HX1 2RG.
 
Representative only of the AXA Sun Life Marketing Group, members of which are 
 regulated by the Financial Services Authority for the purpose of advising 
 only on the life insurance, pension and investment contracts of the companies 
 in the AXA Sun Life Marketing Group. To help improve our service, telephone 
 calls may be recorded.
The telephone no. of AXA Sun Life is 0117 989 6013.
 
About Us 
Contact Us 
Phone a Boss 
Disability Discrimination Act 
Customer Service 
Complaints 
Directions to the Corporate Centre 
Pictures of the Corporate Centre 
AskBM Survey 
Unclaimed Distributions 
BM in the Community 
Branch finder 
Home Menu 
 
