Bank of Scotland
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	home >
	corporate banking products >
	electronic banking >
	hobs helpdesk online 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Home 
	
	
	Relationship	Banking 
	
	
	Corporate Banking 
Products 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Corporate Deposit
 Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Client Banking Cash Management Service 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Payment Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Electronic Banking
 Services 
	
	
	
	
	HOBS Support
 and Fees 
	
	
	
	
	HOBS Helpdesk 
Online 
	
	
	
	
	Software Versions 
	
	
	
	
	Further Help and
Reference Sources 
	
	
	
	
	Are you making
the most of HOBS? 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Specialist Services 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Asset Finance 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Specialist Funding
Solutions 
	
	
	International 
	
	
	Corporate Finance
 Newsletter 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	ENHANCEMENTS TO VERSION 2.2 
	
	
	 
	
	
	We've designed our HOBS services to be as simple and easy-to-use as possible, but sometimes you might need that extra bit of help or support. Our HOBS Help Desk operates 7am to 11pm, 7 days a week UK local time, to provide you with technical support when you need it. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Just call the HOBS Help Desk on 0845 300 6444, or email us at hobs_helpdesk@bankofscotland.co.uk 
	
	
	 
	
	
	However, we've got a wealth of resources for you here, so you can help yourself . . . . ! 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Set-up guide 
 This is a PDF copy of the Set-up guide 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	System Administrator guide 
 This is a PDF copy of the System Administrator guide 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	User guide 
 This is a PDF copy of the User guide 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Amend customer details 
 If your business details have changed (eg- change of address, contact persons, account facilities, etc), you'll need to let us know by completing this PDF form and sending it to your branch. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Add/amend site details 
 If you want to install Business HOBS at additional offices of your business, or change details for your existing location/s, you'll need to let us know by completing this PDF form and sending it to your branch. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Software versions 
 Check that you've got the latest version of your Business HOBS software. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Further help and reference sources
 Some guidelines on where to look if you need further help or advice. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Are you making the most of HOBS? 
	
	
	
	 	
	
	*You will need Adobe Acrobat Reader to view these forms. If you don't already have Acrobat Reader, you can download it for free from 
 www.adobe.com/prodindex/acrobat/readstep.html 
	
	
	 
	
 Microsoft® and Windows® are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and / or other countries. Quicken® is a Registered Trademark of Intuit.
 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	International
	Operations in Europe, USA, Asia & Australia 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Integrated Finance
	The alternative to traditional debt solutions 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Contact us: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Offices and contacts 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Email 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Other Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	HBOS plc Group Info 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Business Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Treasury Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	EURO Services 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
