
	Lloyds TSB - Lloyds TSB Group links
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Home Legal About us Our Services Security Accessibility Contact us 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Lloyds TSB Group
	
	Lloyds TSB Group links history company policies
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	For links to Lloyds TSB International sites, click here 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Click on the links listed below to take you to your required site 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.assetfinance4business.co.uk
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	For more information or a quotation from Lloyds TSB Asset Finance. We can help you select the most appropriate asset funding products for your business. 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.cheltglos.co.uk 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	For details on C&G’s range of simple and flexible mortgages and investments. You can find out where your nearest branch is and answers to frequently asked questions. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/commercial 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	For businesses with an annual turnover of between £2m and £100m. This gives you information on our banking facilities, the economy, news and events and business. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/insurance 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Get a quote and buy your home, car and travel insurance online. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/investorrelations 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Information for investors of Lloyds TSB. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/marketplace 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Our business to business trading hub provides a secure environment through which businesses can buy and sell online. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/mediacentre 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	News from Lloyds TSB's Press Office. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/motordirect 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	A smarter way to get a better deal on your new car. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/privatebanking 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Provides information about our Investment Management Services in the UK, who you can contact, what we offer and how to find out more. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb.com/success4business 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	A guide to our branch based business accounts for customers with an annual turnover of up to £2m. Our Internet banking service for business customers can be accessed from here. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb-offshore.com
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Banking in the Channel Islands and Isle of Man for customers all over the world. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	For companies with share registers, more information about our registration services plus the latest industry news. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsbcardnet.com 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	A range of credit card services for business', including a complete end-to-end solution for 'e' tailing, secure credit and debit card authorisation, order management and payment processing. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsbfoundations.org.uk 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	This site details how Lloyds TSB Foundations helps disadvantaged and disabled people of all ages to play a fuller role in the community. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.lloydstsbiwm.com 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Financial services, from investment management and bank accounts to trust and company services for clients living and working abroad. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.scottishwidows.co.uk 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	For information on Scottish Widows Life, Pensions and Investment products. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.shareview.co.uk 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	For information for shareholders from Lloyds TSB Registrars. Check your shareholdings in a large number of UK companies or find out more about stocks and shares. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	www.swipartnership.com 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Provides an overview of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, together with market commentary and analysis. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
