
cahoot
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
{ 
back 
} 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The cahoot current account is not a one-size-fits-all 
 account. Our three account options are based on how you want to 
 use your overdraft facility and if your circumstances change, you 
 can always ask to switch account options.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If you usually stay in credit 
 or occasionally go overdrawn, this is the option for you. You pay 
 no monthly fees and, if you go over your £250 interest-free 
 overdraft, you pay from 7.0% APR*¹ on the additional overdrawn 
 balance. 
 
 
 
 If you frequently go overdrawn 
 by more than £250, this may be the best option. You pay a monthly 
 fee on your account from £6.83, and if you exceed your £250 
 interest-free overdraft, you also pay interest from 0.2875% per month 
 on the additional overdrawn balance. That represents an APR* from 
 6.3%². 
 
 
 
 If you are always overdrawn 
 to a high proportion of your overdraft limit, you can opt to pay a 
 fixed fee each month (whether you're overdrawn or not) starting from 
 £13.65, depending on your overdraft limit. That represents an 
 APR* from 5.6%³. 
 
 Exact rates 
 & fees offered will depend on your credit rating 
 and agreed overdraft limit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 { 
 view 
 rates and fees 
 } 
 
 { 
 apply 
 } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*APRs for a typical customer who requests an 
 overdraft facility of £3000 are ¹ 8.0% APR for option 
 1; ² 0.3275% monthly interest and a monthly fee of £7.80 for 
 option 2, representing a 7.2% APR; ³ a monthly fee of £15.60 
 for option 3, representing a 6.4% APR . Interest rates and fees 
 are variable. A cahoot overdraft is repayable at any time in accordance 
 with the terms and conditions. 
 
 
Cash advances on non-LINK machines will incur 
 a 1.5% fee (minimum £1.50) and non-sterling advances will incur an additional 
 charge of 2.25%. Other charges are listed in our terms 
 and conditions.
 
In calculating the APRs we have ignored any 
 changes to the interest rates, fees or charges which we may introduce 
 or vary. The exact rate or fee will be determined by your credit rating 
 and credit requirements. Rates correct as of 13 August 2001.
	
	
 
cahoot accounts are available, subject to status, 
 to UK residents who are aged 21 or over and who have regular Internet 
 access. Written quotations are available on request from contact.us@cahoot.com.
cahoot is a division of Abbey National plc. Abbey National plc is registered in England, 
registered number 2294747. Registered Office: Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square, Regent’s 
Place, London, NW1 3AN
 
 
 
 
 
