
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Your Questions Answered 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal > Online Personal Loans > Payment Protection
 
Online Personal Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment Protection
	
Who is eligible?
 
You will be eligible for cover if, at the start of the insurance:
 
 
- you are resident in the UK
 
- the total amounts owed are not more than £50,000
 
- you are aged 18 or over and under 65 when your loan is due to be repaid
 
- you are at work, other than temporary work, of at least 16 hours a week (not absent due to sickness or injury), 
 and 
 
- you are the nominated insured person for insurance on your loan application form. 
 
 
What if I am self-employed or working on a fixed term contract?
 
You may still be eligible for cover and you should take special notice of the additional exclusions which apply 
 specifically to you.
 
 
Summary of Cover
 
Personal Loan Payment Protection Plan can take care of your payments if you're unable to work due to accident 
 and sickness or involuntary unemployment.
 
It comes with a "Back to Work" service which provides free independent and confidential advice in 
 coping with an accident, sickness or unemployment, and can help you with finding a new job.
 
How much does it cost?
 
Premiums are calculated according to the amount of money that you borrow and the duration of the loan, specific 
 costs can be found using the Personal Loan Illustrator. Premiums are added to your loan and included in your 
 monthly loan repayments.
 
How does it work?
 
Cover commences when your signed loan agreement has been received by your Bank branch. If you are unable to 
 work due to either accident or sickness or unemployment, then you may be able to claim to have your repayments 
 made for you as follows, subject to a maximum monthly benefit of £1,500 and maximum life benefit of £50,000 
 for all insured agreements:
 
ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS COVER
 
If you are off work because of an accident or sickness for more than 30 consecutive days, then a monthly benefit 
 equal to your loan repayment will be paid, and will continue to be paid after each further complete calendar 
 month of disability until:
 
 
- your period of accident or sickness ends, or
 
- your outstanding loan balance is paid off,
 
 
whichever happens first. 
 
UNEMPLOYMENT COVER
 
If you have been made unemployed (or have been declared involuntarily insolvent in the case of a self-employed 
 customer), and you are out of work for more than 30 consecutive days, then a monthly benefit equal to your loan 
 repayment will be paid, and will continue to be paid after each further complete calendar month of unemployment 
 until:
 
 
- your period of unemployment ends,
 
- your outstanding loan balance is paid off, or
 
- you have been paid 18 full monthly benefits for any one continuous period of unemployment,
 
 
whichever happens first.
 
LIFE COVER
 
If you die, your outstanding loan balance will be paid, less any arrears or any associated interest and costs.
 
How do I claim?
 
You simply phone the free phone number on the certificate and your details are registered on a claim form. 
 This will be sent to you for checking and completion by you, your employer, your doctor or Employment Service 
 or Benefits Agency as appropriate. You will be required to sign the claim form and return it to the insurer. 
 Approved claim payments are made directly to your loan account.
 
Back to Work
 
Personal Loan Payment Protection Plan comes with a dedicated helpline giving free, confidential advice on coping 
 with unemployment and finding a new job. Additionally where practical, medical help is available to help speed 
 your recovery if you are off work due to accident or sickness.
 
What is not covered?
 
Benefits will not be paid for the following:
 
 
- Any claim caused by war or similar risks.
 
- Accident or Sickness or Unemployment due to:
 
 
- your own wilful or deliberate actions
 
- drug or alcohol abuse.
 
 
- Accident or Sickness due to:
 
 
- pregnancy or childbirth, unless there is a medical complication.
 
 
- Unemployment:
 
 
- which is normal, seasonal or regular in your job
 
- after temporary work
 
- which you knew about at the start of cover
 
- which is voluntary or due to your misconduct
 
- after a fixed term contract, unless you have been insured for more than 120 days and you have worked for the same employer for more than 12 months and your contract has been renewed at least once, or you were previously a permanent employee
 
- if you are self-employed, unless you are involuntarily insolvent
 
- for any period you are paid in lieu of notice.
 
 
 
When does Payment Protection Plan end?
 
The insurance will end if any of the following happen:
 
 
- the loan repayments end or the agreed date for the end of the loan is reached
 
- the right to the loan repayment is transferred to a third party
 
- you reach age 65 or you die
 
- for unemployment insurance, you retire from work
 
- you make a fraudulent claim, in which case you will have to return any benefits paid.
 
 
What else should I know?
 
This is only a summary of cover provided. You will receive a Certificate of Insurance with your loan papers 
 which give full details of the terms and conditions. A copy is available on request. If you are not entirely 
 satisfied with the insurance, simply return the Certificate of Insurance back to your Yorkshire Bank branch 
 within 30 days of receipt. The insurance will be cancelled and, providing you have not made a claim, a full 
 refund will be made of any premiums paid.
 
Customer Service
 
We are keen to ensure that you are happy with the insurance you take out and the service provided. If you have 
 a query or complaint regarding your insurance, please contact either the Yorkshire Bank Help Desk - telephone 
 0113 246 3989, or for accident and sickness or unemployment insurance, write to the insurers: London & Edinburgh, 
 Dept 29, The Warren, Worthing, West Sussex BN14 9QD. If, after reasonable time, you feel there are still elements 
 of your complaint which need resolving, please write to the Chief Executive, General Insurance, London & 
 Edinburgh, PO Box 6, Surrey Street, Norwich NR1 3NS. For life insurance you can contact the Customer Service 
 Manager, National Australia Life Company Limited, PO Box 3004, Glasgow G81 2NS. In the unlikely event of the 
 complaint still not being resolved, you are entitled to refer to the Financial Ombudsman Service, South Quay 
 Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London E14 9SR. Your legal rights are not affected by these procedures.
 
Telephone conversations may be recorded or monitored. This is for your secuity and with the aim of improving 
 customer service and for staff training.
 
General Information
 
There is a choice of law for this insurance but unless the insurers agree otherwise, the law for that part 
 of the United Kingdom, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man in which you normally live will apply.
 
The Policyholders Protection Act 1975 may provide compensation if the insurers become insolvent. Further details 
 are available from the insurers on request.
 
Some of the information you have provided, both at the time of applying for this insurance and on making a 
 claim, may be made available to other insurers for claims purposes via a register of claims. A list of participants 
 and the name and address of the operator is available on request. In addition, insurers, lenders and their agents 
 may share information you have provided to them and may also undertake checks against publicly available information 
 as necessary.
 
Information defined as sensitive within the Data Protection Act 1998 includes health records. The insurer collects 
 such information at claims stage. The insurer is unable to offer you this insurance unless you provide consent 
 for the collection and use of such sensitive data at claim stage to enable the processing necessary for performance 
 of this insurance contract. Such information will only be held and used by the underwriting insurer, and their 
 agents.
 
This insurance has been arranged by Yorkshire Bank Financial Services Limited (YBFS). For the selling of general 
 insurance YBFS acts as your agent and accepts responsibility for the sale of this insurance and the advice provided.
 
London and Edinburgh Insurance Company Limited is a member of the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
 and has undertaken to comply with the rules set out in the GISC General Insurance Code. This sets out the minimum 
 standards of good practice which all members must follow. A copy of the code is available on request from GISC 
 on 020 7648 7800 or www.gisc.co.uk. 
 
London and Edinburgh Insurance Company Limited has agreed to comply with the Association of British Insurers 
 Claims Code, a copy of which is available on request from them or from the ABI website at www.abi.org.uk.
 
Payment Protection is underwritten by:
 
London and Edinburgh Insurance Company Limited
 Registered in England Number: 924430, Registered Office: 8 Surrey Street, Norwich NR1 3NG
 Norwich Union Life & Pensions Limited
 Registered in England Number: 3253947, Registered Office: 2 Rougier Street, York YO90 1UU
 (Both companies are members of the CGNU group)
 And
 National Australia Life Company Limited
 Registered in England Number: 2949788, Head Office: 88 Wood Street, London EC2V 7QQ
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal Loan Illustrator* 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Apply Online* 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Continue with a Previous Application* 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Payment Protection 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 	
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
