
	Lloyds TSB - site terms and conditions
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Home Legal About us Our Services Security Accessibility Contact us 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Legal
	
	site terms and conditions Information about us Banking important information Borrowing important information Saving & Investing important information Our services important information Supplier terms & conditions
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	THIS IS THE OFFICIAL SITE OF LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC AND LLOYDS TSB SCOTLAND PLC. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	YOU SHOULD READ THESE CONDITIONS CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THIS SITE. YOU SHOULD ALSO READ THE CONDITIONS ABOUT EACH SERVICE ON THIS SITE. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	who can use this site
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	1. This site complies with appropriate UK legislation and it is to be used only by persons who access it from within the UK and the services on this site are only available to UK residents. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	personal information
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	2. We will not collect any personal information about you unless you have chosen to give it to us. Do not give it to us if you do not want it collected. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	3. We may use information we have collected about you for improving customer service, and to respond to your queries. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	4. 
We may store some information on your hard disk (‘a cookie’). Cookies are used as part of our security and to show you certain information when you visit the secure areas of our website. You can choose to accept or delete cookies. Deleting them may mean that this site does not work properly.
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	5. When you speak to us on the phone, some calls may be monitored or recorded in case we need to check we have carried out your instructions correctly and to help improve our quality of service. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	> back to top 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	exclusions of our legal liability
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	The following clauses exclude or limit our legal liability for this site. You should read them carefully. They all apply only as far as the law permits, and in particular we do not intend to affect our duties and liabilities to you under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, or the rules and regulations for the conduct of business under this Act. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	6. This site contains a large amount of complex information. We have tried to make it as clear, easy to use and as accurate as possible. However we disclaim all express or implied warranties that this site is accurate, complete, or up to date. We will have no liability to you if it is not. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	7. The fact that information, products or services are shown on this site does not necessarily mean that: 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	(a) you should rely on the information (whether provided by us or third parties); 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	(b) we endorse the information, products or services provided by third parties; or 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	(c) the product and services that we provide are suitable for you. It is your responsibility to check this out. Some of the services on this site may not be available or may have changed. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	8. We are not in any way responsible for anything mentioned on or linked to this site that someone else is marketing. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	9. Please remember that, unlike our internet banking services, email is not a completely secure means of communication: it may be possible for others to intercept and read your messages. So if you choose to send us information by email, it is at your own risk. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	10. If you want more information about anything on this site, please contact any of our branches. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	> back to top 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	copyrights, trademarks and copying materials on this site
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	11. We own (or have a licence for) all copyrights for this site and all trademarks and other materials used on it. (Note in particular that Lloyds TSB, Cashpoint and the black horse logo are our registered trademarks.) ª Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Lloyds TSB Scotland plc 1999. All rights reserved. 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	12. You may use anything on this site only for your personal information and for this purpose you may print, copy, download or temporarily store extracts from this site. You must not alter anything. Any other use is prohibited unless you first have our written permission. In particular no-one may use any part of this site on any other web site, or link any other web site to this site, without this permission. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	> back to top 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	other information
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	13. This site and these conditions are governed by English law. Any disputes arising from this site shall be resolved by the English courts, unless you can show you accessed the site from Scotland in which case the Scottish courts may be used. 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	> back to top 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
