
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Short Term 
 
	 
 
 Longer Term 
 
	
	
	 
	 
	 Individual Savings Account 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Savings 
 > Individual Savings Account > Key Features
 
Individual Savings Account
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
Key Features
 
Maxi ISA
 
You may contribute to only one Maxi ISA in any tax year with one ISA Manager. Maxi ISAs can be made up of either 
 one, two or all three options. You can save up to a total of £7,000 each tax year, subject to the following 
 limits for the individual options: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash 
 £3,000 
 
 
 Stocks and Shares 
 £7,000 
 
 
 Life Assurance 
 £1,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mini ISA
 
Rather than a single Maxi ISA you can hold up to 3 Mini ISAs, one for each of the options listed below. Each 
 Mini ISA may be held with a different ISA Manager. This allows you to choose up to 3 different ISA providers 
 if you so wish. You can save up to a total of £7,000 in Mini ISAs in the first tax year, subject to the 
 following maximum limits for the individual options: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash 
 £3,000 
 
 
 Stocks and Shares 
 £3,000 
 
 
 Life Assurance 
 £1,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your Investment
 
You may choose to invest a lump sum, by cash, cheque or credit card. Currently, the minimum lump sum investment 
 is £10 and the minimum additional lump sum for investors is £10. Alternatively, you may choose to 
 invest a monthly sum by direct debit. At present, the minimum regular saving amount is £10 per month and 
 the minimum additional regular sum for investors is £10.
 
 What are 'CAT' Standards?
 
These are standards set by the Government against the Criteria of Charges, Access and Terms. The Government 
 does not endorse products meeting the Standards, and they should not be regarded as a guarantee of performance 
 or as an indicator of suitability.
 
The MLC Cash ISA meets CAT Standards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CAT Standard 
 MLC Savings Standard 
 
 
 Charges 
 None, except for things like duplicate statements. 
 None, except for things like duplicate statements. 
 
 
 Access 
 £10 minimum investment or withdrawal. Withdrawals paid 
 within 7 business days. 
 No other conditions apply. £10 minimum investment and 
 £1 minimum withdrawal. Withdrawals paid within 4 business days. 
 
 
 Terms 
 Interest rate not lower than 2% below base rate. Interest rate 
 increases to reflect base rate movements within 1 calendar month. No other conditions apply. 
 Interest rate not lower than 2% below base rate. Interest rate 
 increases to reflect base rate movements within 1 calendar month. No other conditions apply. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest.
 
 
 
 
(i)
 
 
 
Interest is calculated daily on the cleared balance in the Cash Account on that day and is credited to 
 the Cash Account once a year on 31st December the first business day thereafter, or on account closure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii)
 
 
 
Interest on cheques will be calculated from the second Bank Business Day after the day on which the cheque 
 is paid in.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii)
 
 
 
Tiered interest rates may apply to the Cash Account. The appropriate rate of interest shall apply automatically 
 to the whole balance, which will be established by reference to the balance in the Cash Account at the 
 relevant time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iv)
 
 
 
The rates of interest payable on the Cash Account may be varied by the Bank from time to time (without 
 prior notice). Changes in interest rates will be published by notices in Bank branches and advertisements 
 in the national press. Information as to current interest rates may be obtained from any Bank branch.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Withdrawals.
 
 
 
 
(i)
 
 
 
 
 
You can request a withdrawal of any amount up to the cleared balance in your Cash Account by post. We 
 can either send you a cheque or transfer the funds to your Nominated Account provided such account can 
 accept transfers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii)
 
 
 
You are not permitted to overdraw the Cash Account. If the Cash Account does have a debit balance then 
 interest will be charged at the rates published in Bank branches.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Queries and complaints.
 
For further information, or if you wish to complain about any aspect of the service you have received, please 
 contact MLC Savings at the following address:
 
Operations Manager, MLC, PO Box 3004, Glasgow G81 2NS.
 
We will do all we can to resolve your complaint. However, if you feel your complaint has not been dealt with 
 to your satisfaction, you can complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service at:
 
South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London E14 9SR. Tel: 0845 080 1800, fax: 020 7964 1001. 
 
Making a complaint will not prejudice your right to take legal proceedings.
 
 Cancellation.
 
 
 
 
(i)
 
 
 
You can withdraw your application for an MLC Cash ISA by writing to the ISA Manager at any time before 
 your first subscription is made.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii)
 
 
 
In addition you may cancel your application for an MLC Cash ISA on or before the 14th day after you receive 
 from the ISA Manager a notice of your cancellation rights. If you exercise your cancellation rights you 
 will be free to subscribe to another ISA in the same Tax Year in which the cancellation is effected.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yorkshire Bank PLC is a member of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial 
 Services and Markets Act 2000. In respect of deposits with a UK office, payments under the Scheme are limited 
 to 100% of the first £2,000 of a depositor's total deposits with the bank and 90% of the next £33,000, 
 resulting in a maximum payment of £31,700. Most depositors, including individuals and small firms, are 
 covered. The Scheme covers deposits made with the offices of the bank within the European Economic Area and 
 deposits denominated in all currencies are treated alike. Further details of the Scheme are available on request.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is an ISA? 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Maxi ISA 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Mini ISA 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Cash ISA 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Key Features 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
