
Account Fees - For People - Ulster Bank (NI)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Account Fees and Ancillary Charges | Legal | Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Accounts
Savings & Investments
Buying a Home
Credit Cards
Personal Loans
Graduates
Students
Pensions/Life Assurance
Insurance
Euro
Online Privacy Policy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal Accounts
 
U First Account
 No transaction charges will be applied in respect of cheques, automated
	debits and lodgments or non-automated debits and lodgments, 
	standing orders, Direct Debits and Switch payments.
 
An automatic debit interest free buffer limit of £250 applies to every
 U First Account. If however your debit balance exceeds the buffer
 limit, standard rate of interest will apply to the whole of the debit 
 balance and in addition surcharge interest will apply to the balance
 in excess of the buffer limit.
 
A statement of your debit interest, if applicable, will be forwarded to
 you at least 2 weeks before it is applied to your account. 
 
top 
 ^
 
 Current Account
 Account fees are calculated on the third Friday in February, May, August 
 and November and applied to your account three weeks after the calculation 
 date. These fees are based on the activity of your account during the 
 charging period, eg a fee applied to your account in September relates 
 to the activity of your account from the third Friday in May to the third 
 Friday in August. When you maintain a credit balance during the three 
 month charging period, no account fees are incurred.
 
top 
 ^ 
 
 Current Plus
 No transaction fees will be applied in respect of Cheques, ATM withdrawals, 
 Standing Orders, Direct Debits and Switch payments. However, 
 a Monthly Account Charge will be charged for the month or part of a month 
 during which the account is overdrawn. This fee, if applicable, will be 
 calculated on the third Friday of each month and applied to accounts on 
 the following Monday.
 
A statement of your debit interest, if applicable, will be forwarded 
 to you at least 2 weeks before it is applied to your account.
 
top 
 ^
 
 Dual Account
 No charge will be made in respect of debit interest or transaction 
 fees. However, a Monthly Account Charge will be charged for the month 
 or part of a month during which you account is overdrawn. This fee, if 
 applicable, will be calculated on the third Friday of each month and applied 
 to accounts on the following Monday.
 
top 
 ^
 
 Premium Account (no longer available to new customers) 
 Account fees are calculated on the third Friday in February and August 
 and applied to your account three weeks after the calculation date. These 
 fees are based on the activity of your account and apply to any items 
 in excess of the 'free' transactions during the charging period eg a fee 
 applied to your account in September relates to the activity of your account 
 from May to August.
 
top 
 ^
 
 Pre-Notification of Charges*
 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
*Pre-notification of Charges on U First and Current Plus Accounts
 is applicable to debit interest only.
 *Pre-notification of Charges is not applicable to Dual Accounts.
 
A statement giving a breakdown of your account fees and debit interest 
 will be forwarded to you at least two weeks before those charges are applied 
 to your account. An example of the statement and the information provided 
 is shown above. When you receive the statement there is no need for you 
 to take any further action - it is simply advance notice of the charges 
 which will be automatically applied to your account. However, if you have 
 any queries please contact your branch where a member of staff will be 
 pleased to help.
 
top 
 ^
 
 A. Account Maintenance
 This fee covers the provision of current account services including 
 bank statements and dealing with general account queries. 
 
top 
 ^
 
 B. Non-Automated Lodgments
 These are lodgments which take place at the counter of an Ulster Bank 
 branch or another bank.
 
top 
 ^
 
 C. Automated Lodgments
 These are lodgments which take place electronically or without the 
 use of paper. They are sent to your bank through the automated clearing 
 system.
 
top 
 ^
 
 D. Other Debits
 These include the following:
 
 
- non-cheque withdrawals at the counter
 
- non-automated direct debits
 
- withdrawals at cash machines using a eurocheque card.
 
 
Ony fee details relevant to your account will appear on each statement 
 eg if you do not have any Direct Debits, the line 'Direct Debits' will 
 not appear.
 
top 
 ^
 
 
 Non-Personal Accounts
 
Since non-personal customers have individual needs, each account is assessed 
 on an individual basis to calculate a fee based on the level of activity. 
 Account fees are charged to these accounts each quarter in March, June, 
 September and December. See Account Fees and Ancillary 
 Charges for details.
 
top 
 ^
 
 
 Personal and Non-Personal Accounts
 
 Cleared/Uncleared Items
 Whenever you pay a cheque into your account the amount of the cheque will 
 be credited to your account that day.
 However, it will usually take two working days for the cheque to be processed 
 (ie passed through to the bank and branch on which it is drawn and payment 
 obtained). During this period the cheque is said to be 'uncleared'.
 
 It is therefore important to remember that the balance of your account 
 may contain some funds which are still 'uncleared'. If you draw against 
 any uncleared funds, and you do not have enough in your account to cover 
 the amount of the drawing, interest will be charged. Your branch will 
 be pleased to tell you your cleared balance on request.
 
While the above explanation covers the clearance of cheques for value 
 in your account, it does not deal with the fate of these cheques ie the 
 payment of them. Sometimes a cheque which you have paid in may be refused 
 by the bank on which it is drawn (eg because the person who gave it to 
 you has insufficient money in his or her account).
 
Your branch will advise you if this happens and the additional cost of 
 dealing with any unpaid cheques will be charged to your account immediately.
 
top 
 ^
 
 Agency Arrangements
 Full banking facilities are available by arrangement to customers of other 
 associated banks and other licensed banks. Details of these services and 
 charges are available on request from any of our branches.
 
top 
 ^
 
 Ancillary Charges
 These apply to all personal (including U First, Current 
 and Current Plus) and non-personal 
 accounts irrespective of whether they are conducted in credit or debit 
 and are in addition to account fees. They are usually applied to your 
 account at the time the service is provided. See Account 
 Fees and Ancillary Charges for details.
 
top 
 ^
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Accounts
 U First Account
 Current Account
 Current Plus
 Dual Account
 Premium Account
 Pre-Notification of Charges 
 
 Account Maintenance
 Non-Automated Lodgments
 Automated Lodgments
 Other Debits
 Non-Personal Accounts 
 Personal and Non-Personal Accounts
 Cleared/Uncleared Items
 Agency Arrangements
 Ancillary Charges 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Bank observes a strict duty of confidentiality about your financial 
 affairs. We will not disclose details of your accounts or your name 
 and address to anyone else, other than to any confidentially appointed 
 agents acting on our behalf, except in the four cases permitted 
 by law. These are:
 
-where we are legally compelled to do so;
 
-where there is a duty to the public to disclose;
 
-where our legitimate interests require disclosure;
 
-where disclosure is made at your request or with yor consent
 
Credit facilities are granted subject to status and conditions. 
 Applicants must be over 18 years of age. Security and insurance 
 may be required. Written quotations are available on request from 
 Ulster Bank Limited, Retail Marketing, Ulster Bank Group Head Office, 
 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast BT1 5UB.
 
Ulster Bank Limited is a member of the Financial
 Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and
 Markets Act 2000. In respect of deposits with a UK office, payments under
 the Scheme are limited to 100% of the first £2,000 of a depositor's total
 deposits with the Bank and 90% of the next £33,000, resulting in a maximum
 payment of £31,700. Most depositors, including individuals and small firms,
 are covered. Deposits denominated in all currencies are treated alike.
 Further details of the Scheme are available on request.
 
 
Ulster Bank subscribes to the Banking code and is also a member 
 of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Copies of the Banking Code are 
 available on request from any branch of Ulster Bank.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
