
The Co-operative Bank plc
 
	
	
	
Terms and Conditions
	
PATHFINDER WORLDWIDE
	
 
 
	 
	
	 
	
Once you have read and accepted the Terms and Conditions, please click 'I Accept' to proceed with the application.
	
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	
	
Definitions
	
1. In these conditions ‘the bank’ means The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.,P.O. Box 101, 1 Balloon Street, Manchester M60 4EP and its successors and assigns. ‘Card’ means the bank's Pathfinder Debit Card issued at any time to a Cardholder. ‘Cardholder’ means the person to whom or for whose use a Card is issued. ‘Card Transaction’ means the purchase of goods or the obtaining of services or cash with the use of the Card whether or not a sale or cash advance voucher is signed by the Cardholder. ‘Card Account’ means the account operated by the Cardholder with the bank for use of the Card. ‘PIN’ means the Personal Identification Number issued to the Cardholder.
	
Use of the Card
	
2.1 The Card must be signed by the Cardholder immediately on receipt and may only be used;
	
2.2 By that Cardholder;
	
2.3 Subject to the terms of this Agreement current at the time of use;
	
2.4 Provided that the Cardholder pays in not less than £100 per month to the Card Account; or an initial sum of at least £1,000;
	
2.5 Within the credit balance and any undrawn facility on the Card Account;
	
2.6 To obtain the facilities and benefits from time to time made available by the bank in respect of the use of the Card;
	
2.7 During the validity period embossed on the Card;
	
2.8 Subject to the right of the bank, in its absolute discretion and without prior notice, at any time to withdraw the right to use the Card for, or to refuse any request for authorisation of any particular Card Transaction and to publish any such withdrawal or refusal. In deciding whether to authorise any particular Card Transaction the bank may take into account in calculating the funds available any outstanding Card Transaction, any authorisation already given for a prospective Card Transaction and any funds which the bank in its own discretion may deem to have credited or debited to the account.
	
	
Payment
	
3. The Cardholder agrees to pay the bank the amount of all Card Transactions and any other liabilities of the Cardholder to the bank and any loss incurred by the bank arising from the use of the Card which the bank determines it has suffered as a result of any breach of this Agreement by the Cardholder. The Cardholder will be liable to pay to the bank all amounts so debited whether or not a sales or cash advance voucher is signed by the Cardholder.
3.1 You will be charged a handling fee on the amount of any cash advance (including cash withdrawals abroad) or purchase of travellers' cheques or foreign currency with the card from a Visa or Plus cash dispenser or a Visa authorised bank branch, please refer to the account charges for details. 
	
4. The amount of any Card Transaction in a currency other than sterling will be converted at a rate of exchange determined by the bank for the date when the Card Transaction is debited to the Card Account and will be subject to an additional 2.75% foreign transaction fee.
	
5.1 The Cardholder irrevocably authorises the bank to debit to the Card Account each banking day (in priority to all drawings or debits) whether by electronic transfer or otherwise;
	
5.2 The amount of any Card Transactions notified to the bank; and
	
5.3 The amount of any payments authorised by the bank for a prospective Card Transaction (whether or not such payments are made), where the Card Account has been debited by the amount of the payment so authorised, such debit will be cancelled only if the bank receives notification satisfactory to it that the transaction to which the authorisation relates has not taken place or has been cancelled (in which event the authorisation shall also cease to have effect).
	
6. You must not overdraw the Card Account. In the event the Card Account overdraws the Card holder must immediately pay into or transfer enough money to bring the Card Account into credit. The unauthorised overdraft charges (including interest, a monthly service charge and daily fee) detailed in the Account charges leaflet published by the Bank from time to time will apply for the month in which the Account is overdrawn.
	
Withdrawal of use of the card 
	
7.1 The bank may at any time and without notice, cancel or suspend the right to use the Card entirely or in respect of specific facilities or refuse to re-issue, renew or replace any Card without in any case affecting the Cardholder's obligations under this Agreement which shall continue in force.
	
7.2 The Card remains the property of the bank at all times. On request all or any Cards issued for use on the Card Account must be returned immediately to the bank or to any person acting for the bank.
	
	
Termination
	
8. The Cardholder may terminate this Agreement by written notice to the bank but such termination shall only be effective on the return to the bank of all Cards issued and the payment of all liabilities of the Cardholder under this Agreement. Until such termination, the bank may re-issue Cards from time to time for use in accordance with this Agreement.
	
	
Safeguarding the card and PIN
	
9.1 The Cardholder will exercise all possible care to ensure the safety of the Card and will prevent the PIN becoming known to any other person. The Cardholder will destroy the advice of the PIN immediately after receipt. The Cardholder will not disclose the Card number to any third party except for the purpose of a Card Transaction or when reporting the actual loss or theft of the Card.
	
9.2 If the Card is lost, stolen or for any reason liable to misuse, or if the PIN is disclosed in breach of this condition or if the Cardholder has reason to believe that the PIN may have become known to another party, the Cardholder must immediately notify The Co-operative Bank, P.O. Box 150, Delf House, Skelmersdale, Lancashire WN8 6YQ (telephone 0845 600 6000). If this notification is given orally it shall not take effect unless confirmed in writing to the bank at the above address within seven days. Until the bank receives effective notification the Cardholder will be liable (subject to any statutory limitations) in respect of any use of the Card. Provided that the Card has not been used by a person who acquired possession of it with the Cardholder's consent and provided that notification is given by the Cardholder in accordance with the above provisions, the Cardholder's liability shall not exceed £25.00. After the bank has been effectively notified, the Cardholder's liability for any subsequent use of the Card other than by the Cardholder will cease.
	 
 
	
	
9.3 The Cardholder will give the bank all the information in the Cardholder's possession as to the circumstances of the loss, theft or misuse of the Card, or disclosure of the PIN and take all steps deemed necessary by the bank to assist the recovery of a missing Card. In the event of any such loss, theft, misuse or disclosure being suspected, the bank may provide the Police with any information it considers relevant. If a Card is reported as lost, stolen or liable to misuse, that Card must not subsequently be used but must be cut in half and returned immediately to The Co-operative Bank Visa Centre, P.O. Box 150, Delf House, Skelmersdale, Lancashire WN8 6YQ.
	
Refunds and Claims
	
10.1 The Card Account will only be credited with a refund in respect of a Card Transaction if the bank receives a refund voucher or other refund verification acceptable to it. Subject to any rights vested in the Cardholder by statute, no claim by a Cardholder against a third party may be the subject of a defense or counter claim against the bank. No rights of a Cardholder against the bank may be assigned or otherwise disposed of.
	
10.2 The bank shall not be liable in any way if the Card is not honoured by a third party.
	
Credit Interest
	
11. The bank, may from time to time, elect to credit the Card Account with interest which will accrue on a daily basis at a rate that the bank may from time to time determine on the balance which is from time to time standing to the credit of the Card Account. Such interest will be calculated daily and credited monthly in arrears.
	
Joint Accounts
	
12. Where the Card Account is in joint names, the Cardholders will be jointly and severally liable to the bank under the terms of this Agreement. If either Cardholder issues an instruction to the bank about any matter relating to the Card Account then the bank may act on that instruction even if the other Cardholder disagrees.
	
Variation of this Agreement
	
13. The bank may vary this Agreement at any time or times whether or not a similar variation is made to the Agreement(s) with any other Cardholder. Subject to the requirements of statute, notification of any such variation shall be given to the Cardholder by the bank either in writing or by publication thereof by such means as the bank may select and a variation so notified shall be binding on the Cardholder. In particular the bank may impose a charge for the Card or any service provided under or in connection with this Agreement from time to time. The bank does not undertake that facilities available to Cardholders as a result of arrangements between the bank and third parties will continue indefinitely.
	
	
General
	
14.1 The bank shall not be liable to the Cardholder if it is unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, nor shall the Cardholder's liability to make payment under condition 3 be discharged if the bank is unable to debit the Card Account, due (directly or indirectly) to the closure of the Card Account, or the failure of any machine, data processing system or transmission link or to industrial dispute or anything outside the control of the bank, its agents or sub-contractors. 
The bank will normally send a quarterly statement to the Cardholder.
	
14.2 The Cardholder shall immediately notify in writing the bank at the address given in clause 9.2 of any change of name or address.
	
14.3 To assist us in improving our service, we may record or monitor telephone calls.
	
14.4 Any other facilities or benefits made available to Cardholders as such and not forming part of this Agreement may be withdrawn at any time without notice.
	
14.5 The Account is held at the Guernsey branch of The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. This Agreement is therefore subject to Guernsey law and the courts of Guernsey will have non-exclusive jurisdiction in connection with the Agreement.
14.6 Deposits made with Guernsey (which is a branch of The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.) are not covered by the Deposit Protection Scheme under the U.K. Banking Act 1987. The branch is licensed under The Banking Supervision (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law 1994, as amended and registered under the Banking Business (Jersey) Law 1991. Copies of the most recent Audited Accounts of The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. are available upon request.
	
Once you have read and accepted the Terms and Conditions, please click 'I Accept' to proceed with the application.
	
 
 
 
	
	 
 
