
Sainsbury's Bank - Mortgages - terms & conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 apply now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 mortgage expert 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay discount mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > the benefits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > repayment example 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > any questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > switch for free 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > terms & conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > mortgages Payment Sure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > charges and fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > repayment information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 fixed rate mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy-to-Let mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 some definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The terms and conditions set out below apply to any formal offer ("Offer")
 of mortgage loan ("Loan") by Sainsbury's Bank® plc. ("the
 Bank"). A borrower ("Borrower") is any person, whether singly or jointly,
 to whom the Loan is to be made available as specified in the Offer. 
 
1.CONDITIONS FOR DRAWING THE LOAN
 
 Before the Borrower can use the Loan: 
 
 
1.1 the Borrower must provide the Bank
 with a valuation of the property which is being purchased/re-mortgaged
 ("the Property"). The terms of the valuation must be acceptable to the
 Bank.
 1.2 the legal formalities regarding the
 security, must have been completed. The terms of the Certificate of Title
 to the Property must be acceptable to the Bank. 
 1.3 the Borrower must return the signed
 acceptance of the Offer and, in doing so, confirms that:
 
 
- no other loan or security agreement will be breached as a result
 of the Borrower's acceptance of the Offer and use of the Loan;
 
- the Borrower is not involved in any court proceedings;
 
- no Event of Default has occurred; and
 
- the information provided by the Borrower to the Bank in respect of
 the Loan application is correct and there have been no material changes
 in the Borrower's financial circumstances.
 
 
2.INTEREST
 
 2.1 The Borrower will pay interest to
 the Bank on the amount of the Loan outstanding at any time. When the Loan
 is drawn, the Bank will request from the Borrower an initial interest
 payment to cover the period from the date the Loan is drawn to the last
 day of the calendar month in which the Loan is drawn. Thereafter, monthly
 interest payments/repayment instalments will be collected at monthly intervals,
 commencing one month from the date the Loan is drawn (or on the date specified
 on the Borrower's mortgage application form, if applicable). The monthly
 interest payable is calculated on the first of the month on the outstanding
 balance at the end of the previous month. 
 
2.2 Interest payments/repayment instalments
 will be collected by direct debit from the Borrower's bank account at
 monthly intervals throughout the Term of the Loan. The Borrower will complete
 direct debit instruction forms as required by the Bank from time to time.
 The Borrower will not cancel these instructions before all the amounts
 due under the Loan have been paid in full.
 
 2.3 The Bank will give the Borrower notice
 of any change in the rate at which interest is to be charged. The interest
 rate applied to the Loan will be altered with effect from the date specified
 in the notice. The Borrower will be liable to pay the interest stated
 in such notice from the date specified in the notice until a further notice
 is issued. A new interest payment/repayment instalment will be requested
 with effect from the next monthly payment date after the end of the month
 in which the alteration in the interest rate occurs. 
 
3.SECURITY
 
The Borrower will grant to the Bank, in security of the Loan and interest
 thereon, a security over the Property in a form acceptable to the Bank.
 The security will be either by way of a first Legal Charge (in England
 and Wales), first Standard Security (in Scotland) or first mortgage (in
 Northern Ireland). 
 
4.EARLY REPAYMENT OF THE LOAN 
 
4.1 The Loan may be repaid in full or in
 part earlier than as specified in the Offer subject to any terms and conditions
 contained in the Offer.
 
4.2 Following a partial early repayment
 of the Loan, repayable by instalments of Capital and Interest, unless
 the Bank specifically agree otherwise, the Bank shall recalculate the
 monthly repayments on the basis that the Term of the Loan will remain
 the same. 
 
4.3 A partial repayment is effective immediately
 upon clearance of funds. Application of the partial repayment will reduce
 the outstanding balance of the Loan. 
 
4.4 Any sums repaid early may not be redrawn.
 
 
5.EVENTS OF DEFAULT 
 
5.1 The Bank may declare that an Event
 of Default has occurred upon or at any time after the happening of any
 of the following events: 
 
 
 
- the Borrower fails to pay any sum on the due date for payment under
 the Offer, or any other sum due and payable to the Bank; or
 
- if the Borrower dies, or a petition is presented for the Borrower's
 bankruptcy or sequestration, or (in Scotland) a judicial factor is appointed;
 or 
 
- any diligence, distress, execution or other legal process is levied
 or enforced or sued out against any of the Borrower's assets; or 
 
- any person takes possession of, or (in England, Wales or Northern
 Ireland) a receiver is appointed over, the whole or any part of the
 Borrower's assets; or 
 
- the Borrower stops or delays payment of sums due or is unable to pay
 debts as they fall due or is believed unable to pay sums due or is deemed
 apparently insolvent under insolvency legislation; or 
 
- any of the events specified in clauses (a) to (e)above happen in
 regard to any Guarantor or if any Guarantor dies or gives notice of
 withdrawal of the Guarantee; or 
 
- the Borrower creates or attempts to create any further security over
 the Property without the written consent of the Bank; or 
 
- the Borrower does not comply with any term or condition of the Offer
 or any security document or if the general mortgage terms and conditions
 Bank discovers that any information provided by the Borrower to the
 Bank either before or after the acceptance of the Offer is untrue; or
 
 
- where the Borrower comprises more than one person, any of those persons
 leave the Property and the Bank is not satisfied that those remaining
 in the Property have adequate financial resources to repay the Loan
 and pay the interest on it: or 
 
- where the relationship between the Borrower and the Bank has irretrievably
 broken down.
 
 
5.2 If the Bank declares that an Event
 of Default has occurred the Bank may at (or at any time after) the time
 of making the declaration: 
 
 
 
- cancel any undrawn amount of the Loan; and/or 
 
- demand immediate payment of the sums outstanding (in which case the
 sums outstanding will become immediately due and payable by the Borrower)or
 declare that the sums outstanding shall become due and payable on demand;
 and/or 
 
- charge an administration fee to compensate the Bank for the additional
 time spent in administering the Loan; and/or 
 
- charge to the Borrower any costs and expenses incurred by the Bank
 in enforcing the Bank's rights under this Offer or in protecting and
 enforcing the Bank's security; and/or 
 
- charge interest on any arrears balance which arises on the same basis
 as that applicable to the outstanding Loan amount; and/or 
 
- at the Bank's discretion, amend the Loan to a capital and interest
 repayment basis.
 
 
6.REPAYMENT OF THE LOAN
 
 6.1 Repayment of the Loan must be made
 by the Borrower, or on the Borrower's behalf, at the end of the Term of
 the Loan or earlier, upon receipt of the proceeds of the policy(ies) and/or
 any other repayment method(s)which the Borrower has selected for this
 purpose, and/or from other funds available at that time.
 
 6.2 In the case of an interest only Loan
 the Borrower is responsible for ensuring that an adequate means of repayment
 be in place to repay the Loan at the end of the Term of the Loan. 
 
6.3 If the Loan is scheduled to be repaid
 on a capital and interest basis, the Bank will calculate suitable monthly
 repayments designed to repay the Loan by the end of the Term of the Loan.
 Capital repayments will reduce the outstanding balance of the Loan every
 month, and interest will not be charged on debt already repaid. 
 
6.4 If the proceeds of the policy(ies)and/or
 any other selected repayment method(s)are insufficient to repay the Loan
 at the end of the Term of the Loan, the Borrower will pay the balance
 to the Bank immediately or, at the Bank's discretion, by monthly payments
 of capital and interest.
 
7.GENERAL CONDITIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS 
 
7.1 The Bank can withdraw the Offer at
 any time before acceptance by the Borrower. However, unless it is withdrawn,
 the Offer will be open for acceptance for one calendar month from its
 date. If not accepted within that time the Offer lapses. 
 
7.2 The Bank may vary the terms and conditions
 applying to the Loan by giving the Borrower not less than one month's
 notice, except where legislation requires an immediate change. Notice
 will be given by way of press notice or letter. 
 
7.3 If any part of the Loan remains undrawn
 three months after the date of the Offer (or if interest on the Loan is
 charged at a fixed rate, any other timescale notified to the Borrower
 in the Offer) then unless the Bank agrees to extend that period the undrawn
 amount shall automatically be cancelled. 
 
7.4 If the Offer states that a Higher Loan
 to Value Access Fee is payable this fee reflects the Bank's increased
 lending risk where the amount of the Loan is a high proportion of the
 Property value. 
 
7.5 The Bank may arrange for its own benefit
 in individual cases, insurance cover in respect of losses arising if a
 Borrower fails to make all payments due on a Loan. If an insurer makes
 payment to the Bank in respect of a claim under such a policy, the insurers
 will have the legal right to recover from the Borrower the amount of such
 sums paid. 
 
7.6 At time of drawdown, the Loan funds
 will be remitted to the Borrower's solicitor by Interbank Electronic Transfer.
 The relative Transfer Fee will be deducted from the Loan funds. 
 
7.7 A statement of the Loan at any time
 and/or interest and/or charges due to the Bank at any time, as certified
 by a Bank authorised official, shall (except where the Bank has made an
 obvious error) be final and conclusive. 
 
7.8 No delay by the Bank in exercising
 any right, power or privilege under the Offer shall prevent the Bank from
 exercising it at a later date and the Bank can exercise any of its powers
 on more than one occasion. 
 
7.9 Unless the Bank agrees in the Offer,
 the Offer will be governed by the law of the country in which the Property
 is situated and the courts of that country will have jurisdiction in relation
 to any matter relating to the Offer. 
 
7.10 Any notice from the Bank shall be
 effectively given if sent by post to the Borrower's address last known
 to the Bank or to the Property. Any notice shall be deemed to have been
 given and received forty eight hours after being sent by first class post.
 
 
7.11 The Borrower shall reimburse the Bank
 for all legal fees and expenses relating to the Offer and any security
 that may be required. 
 
7.12 The Borrower must keep the Property
 insured to its full reinstatement value with a reputable insurance company
 for all the normal risks included in a comprehensive domestic buildings
 insurance policy, failing which the Bank may do so and recover payment
 of any premiums from the Borrower and may debit the premium(s)to the Loan
 account. The amount and scope of cover required by the Bank to protect
 its interest may be less than the Borrower requires to protect their own
 interest. By accepting these terms the Borrower acknowledges this and
 accepts that it is the Borrower's own responsibility to arrange any additional
 insurance which may be required. 
 
7.13 In the event that the Property is
 less than ten years old, either a valid National Housebuilders' Registration
 Council Certificate or a Zurich Municipal "Newbuild" Guarantee must be
 in force. As an alternative, and entirely at the Bank's discretion, a
 set of Architects Certificates, acceptable to the Bank, must be in place.
 In the event that the Property is less than fifteen years old, a valid
 "Foundation 15" certificate will be accepted in this regard. 
 
7.14 The Borrower must not, without obtaining
 the Bank's prior written consent; (a) use or permit any part of the Property
 to be used for any purpose other than the existing permitted use; or (b)
 carry out any alteration to or development of the Property; or (c) let,
 sub-let, convey, assign, transfer, mortgage or otherwise dispose of the
 Property. 
 
7.15 If the Bank agrees to any letting
 or sub-letting of the Property, or any part of the Property, the Bank
 may vary the interest rate detailed in the Offer.
 
7.16 In the case of a Loan in joint names
 where the Borrower comprises of two or more individuals, all such individuals
 will be held jointly and severally liable for the debt and all obligations
 of the Borrower under the Offer. 
 
7.17 In the event that the end of the Term
 of the Loan is earlier than the date of maturity of any pension policy
 intended for repayment of the Loan then the Bank may, at the Bank's discretion,
 extend the Term of the Loan to coincide with the date of maturity of the
 pension policy. 
 
7.18 Immediately prior to drawdown of the
 Loan the Borrower's Employer/Accountant may be contacted by telephone
 in order to re-affirm the Borrower's employment/business trading status.
 
 7.19 A note of all the charges relating
 to the Loan will accompany the Offer. If during the year the charges change,
 then an amended tariff will be sent to the Borrower. 
 
7.20 Telephone calls may be recorded for
 security purposes and monitored under our quality control procedures.
 
 
7.21 Cheques paid into the account will
 take up to 4 business days to clear (e.g. a cheque paid into your account
 on a Monday will be cleared by the following Friday). Cheques drawn on
 a Northern Irish bank branch located in Northern Ireland require an additional
 2 business days to clear.
 
7.22 Cheques paid into the account must
 be in Sterling and drawn on a bank in the United Kingdom. 
 
8.SECURITISATION 
 
8.1 The Bank may wish to "securitise" certain
 Loans at sometime in the future. This process involves packaging Loans
 together and asking other financial institutions to share the credit risk
 and security. This would not affect the relationship between the Borrower
 and the Bank and the Bank would still be responsible for the administration
 of the Loan.
 
8.2 By accepting this Offer, the Borrower
 agrees that the Bank may securitise the Loan at some time in the future
 and authorises the Bank to disclose the Borrower's name, address and other
 relevant information, on a confidential basis, to any bank or financial
 institution participating in the securitisation exercise. 
 
8.3 If the Borrower does not wish the Loan
 to be securitised, they should write to advise the Bank accordingly. The
 Bank will ensure that those wishes are respected. 
 
Sainsbury's Bank plc, 
 Teviot House, 
 41 South Gyle Crescent, 
 Edinburgh,
 EH12 9BD. 
 
Sainsbury's Bank is a registered trademark of Sainsbury's
 Bank plc.
 
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS
 ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
