
BRISTOL & WEST
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
General questions
	
	Q. Why does it take so long to load your website?
	A. This is dependent on the speed of your Internet Service Provider's (ISP) connection to the world wide web, the speed of your modem and the speed of your PC. It can also depend on the speed of the telephone line you use to connect to your ISP.
	
	
	
	Q. Which browsers support your website ?
	A. Our website has been designed for Internet Explorer 4 with Service Pack 1 or above and Netscape Navigator 4.61 or above on either Windows 95, 98 or NT. We believe that this supports over 95% of people accessing the Internet in the UK.
	
	
	
	Q. Use of e-mail on our website
	A. If you e-mail us, or give us your e-mail address, we will keep a record of it. We may use it to contact you occasionally about our products and services, unless you ask us not to do so. We will not give your e-mail address to any unauthorised third parties.
	In order to protect your confidentiality, we will not include confidential account information in any e-mail we send to you. This is for your own protection. Whilst we also suggest that you do not send confidential information in any e-mail to us, we would request that your customer number or account number is quoted in all communications.
	
	
	
	Q. Information on the site seems to be out-of-date
	A. We endeavour to keep our interest rates advertised on our web site up to date at all times. Occasionally your personal computer may load a web page from its own (cached) memory rather than from the web site. If this occurs the REFRESH button can be used on the browser software and the up to date web page will be downloaded from the internet.
	
	
	
	Q. How do I set my PC up to stop this happening ?
	A. To stop this from occuring in the future:
	If you are using Internet Explorer 4
	Select the View menu, then Internet Options.
	Under Temporary Internet Files, choose settings.
	Within settings choose 'every visit to page'.
	Click OK on both boxes.
	If you are using Internet Explorer 5
	Select the Tools menu, then Internet Options.
	Under Temporary Internet Files, choose settings.
	Within settings choose 'every visit to page'.
	Click OK on both boxes.
	
	
	
Mortgage questions
	
	
	Q. How do I print out the mortgage application form I have just completed?
	A. The mortgage application has been designed as an on-line document which you are able to retrieve on the web-site using your username and password for up to three months. If however, you still want to print your application form then retrieve the form and at each page use the print function in your browser software. This will enable you to obtain a copy of each page of your mortgage application form.
	
	
	
	Q. Is it safe to transmit my mortgage application to you over the Internet?
	A. Security of your personal information is a prime concern. As such, we have implemented several layers of security and provide the highest level of encryption available across the Internet today. Web pages holding your information are secured using Secure Sockets (SSL) and after completing your mortgage application, your details are transmitted using 128bit encryption. This ensures that no one on the Internet can view your personal details.
	
	
	Q. What is the Online Mortgage Application form?
	A. Our online application form enables you to enter your application details and transmit them electronically to us in a secure environment. We have used the most up-to-date security techniques to ensure your information is received by us in a secure fashion.
	
	
	Q. Why do I need to enter a password?
	A. By asking you to enter a username and password when you start the application process you can leave the application form at any time and complete it later. Once you have completed the application form you will no longer be able to change it, but you will be able to access the application on our web-site for three months. After three months the application form will be deleted.
	
	
	Q. How do I use the Online Application forms?
	A. Built-in intelligence within the Application form ensures that only the parts of the form that are relevant to you are displayed. Use your mouse to select options, and to select each box on the form to type in the details required. 
	Simply fill in the details asked for and press the 'Next' button to proceed to the next part of the form. If you wish to change your application details at any point then press the 'Back' button to move back to the part of the form you wish to change. Then use the 'Next' button to move forward again.
	Once the form is complete a 'Submit' button will be displayed which you should press to transmit the completed form. 
	
	
	Q. Do I have to have a property before I can apply?
	A. No you do not need to have a property in mind before applying. If you would like an approval in principle, please contact a mortgage specialist in Direct Mortgages on 0845 300 8000. 
	
	
	Q. Can I apply for a further Advance online?
	A.This facility is not available at present. If you want to apply for a further advance, please contact your local branch or phone our Further Lending department on 0845 113 2211, Monday to Friday between 9:00am and 5:30pm where we will be happy to help.
	
	
	Q. Do Bristol & West consider pure interest only mortgages?
	A. In general Bristol & West would require you to have a repayment vehicle in place to cover the full mortgage amount. In certain circumstances an application can be considered without a repayment vehicle but you would need to contact Direct Mortgages on 0845 300 8000 to confirm if this is possible in your specific situation.
	
	
	Q. What is the maximum mortgage term?
	A. 25 years or ceasing at retirement age (whichever is the sooner) unless you are applying for a pension linked mortgage when the term can be extended beyond 25 years.
	
	
	Q. Can anyone access my Personal Information on the Internet? 
	A. Security of your personal information is a prime concern. As such, we implement several layers of security and provide the highest level of encryption available across the Internet today.
	Web pages holding your information are secured using Secure Sockets (SSL). Finally, after completing our Online Application form, your details are transmitted using 128bit encryption. This ensures that no one on the Internet can view your personal details.
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
