
Social & Environmental Report 2001
 
	Barclays Home | Contact us | About Barclays 
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home : Public issues 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
 
 
 
 
 Customers 
 
 
 
 
 Employees 
 
 
 
 
 Equality 
 and diversity 
 
 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 Public Issues 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Human Rights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Animal Experiments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Defence 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fraud/money laundering 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bribery 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Third World debt 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 African Development 
 
 
 
 
 Environment 
 
 
 
 
 Feedback/Contacts 
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Issues
 Download and print PDF of this section
 
Barclays is an apolitical organisation and 
 does not favour any one political party over any other. However, 
 we monitor the political situation and trends which may affect 
 our customers or our business. Where issues arise that are 
 relevant to our business,we will make legislators aware of 
 our views. 
 
We also monitor issues of broader public 
 interest so that we are aware of the views of a wide range 
 of stakeholder groups when making business decisions.
 
Barclays recognises that our position as 
 financier to a wide range of customers and projects has the 
 potential to impact significantly on society and the environment. 
 When assessing financial propositions, if we identify areas 
 of sensitivity, we apply the relevant Barclays policy. In 
 the absence of specific guidance,we aim to ensure the issues 
 are considered carefully at an appropriate level within the 
 organisation.
 
We are conscious of the increasing demand 
 for information about our social, ethical and environmental 
 policies from concerned investors and customers, community 
 organisations, pressure groups, government agencies and the 
 media.
 
These groups are all important to the success 
 of our business and their concerns and opinions help to shape 
 our approach to corporate social responsibility. The following 
 statements outline our approach to a range of issues of public 
 interest.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Print PDF of... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Report 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
