
Unclaimed Distributions - Notice
 
Sale of Unclaimed Halifax plc Preference Shares and Retention of Unclaimed 
 Cash Distributions.
 
If 
 you have already received shares or cash as part of our April 1999 transfer 
 to Halifax plc then you do not need to take any further action.
 
If you cannot remember if you have already claimed your allowance, please 
 check your records and passbooks for payments made to you at the end of 
 April 1999 that may match your cash or share allocation statement we sent 
 you in March \ April 1999. 
 
Only former members of Birmingham Midshires qualified 
 for a cash or shares distribution in April 1999. If you hold only Halifax 
 accounts, then you do not qualify.
 
 To qualify as an Investing Member, you had to hold a 
 'share account' in Birmingham Midshires. A share account gave membership 
 and voting rights in the Birmingham Midshires Building Society.
 
Halifax plc gives notice of its intention to sell "free shares" 
 and retain &#147;cash distributions&#148; which remain unclaimed following 
 the transfer of the business of Birmingham Midshires Building Society 
 to Halifax plc on 19th April 1999. 
 
If you do not claim any free shares to which you are entitled, Halifax 
 plc may sell them after three months from 25 April 2002. If your 
 unclaimed shares are sold and you make a valid claim later, you will, 
 for a period of time, be entitled to claim from Halifax plc a sum equivalent 
 to the net proceeds of the sale and any dividends paid on the free shares 
 before the date of sale. After that time, you will lose any right to claim 
 these sums.
 
If you do not claim any cash distribution(s) to which you are entitled 
 within three months of 25 April 2002, you will lose your right 
 to claim this sum.
 
 
 
 Unclaimed Distribution 
 Information 
 
 
 
 
 Published Advert 
 
 
 Do 
 I Qualify? 
 
 
 Cash 
 Distributions FAQ 
 
 
 Preference 
 Shares FAQ 
 
 
 How 
 Do I Claim? 
 
 
 Other 
 Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home Menu 
 
 
 
