
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your Home
 
Your Home
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
Taking out a Home Loan is
 a major step in anyone’s life, and it’s probably the biggest financial commitment
 you will ever make. There are a number of decisions to be made before you
 make such an important and often long term commitment and at Northern, we
 believe that it is essential to explain what your various options are and
 help you to make an informed choice about what is best suited to your individual
 needs.
 
 If there is one thing that distinguishes a Northern Home Loan, it is
 adaptability. As your lifestyle or income changes, your family grows,
 or your needs and plans alter, you can rely on a Northern Home Loan being
 able to adapt to meet those changes. We can help you personalise your
 Home Loan so that it will be manageable and provide the right support
 and flexibility you need - when you need it.
	
How do I Tailor my Home Loan?
	 
There are three phases to Tailoring a Northern Home Loan :
 
 
- The Basic Structure
 
- The Repayment Schedule
 
- The Tailored Home Loan Package
 
	 
The Basic Structure
	 
There are a number of basic decisions to be made when you take out a Home Loan.
- How much to Borrow
- The Term
- Capital and Interest Repayment or Interest Only
- Fixed, Variable or Capped Rates
- Repayment Frequency
1. How much do you want to borrow - to a large extent this will be dictated by the property you want to buy. However you have the choice of how much of your own savings you wish to place as a deposit, which will influence the amount you need to borrow
2. The Term - historically mortgages have been taken over a period of 25 years and there is often no choice in this matter. At Northern, we realise that you may have some personal goals eg. having the mortgage repaid before the children go off to university, or perhaps you want to retire early and have a specific age in mind, we therefore offer you a choice of the term over which your Home Loan is repaid, in order to accommodate these personal aspirations. We also realise that circumstances can change quite dramatically during the term of your Home Loan, so we give you the flexibility to adjust the actual term of your loan.
3. Capital and Interest Repayment or Interest Only
4. Fixed, Variable or Capped Rates
5. Repayment Frequency - historically mortgages are repaid monthly, however Northern offers a choice of weekly, fortnightly or monthly repayments for our Home Loans, so that you can choose the frequency which best suits when you are paid. You can even choose the day of the week or the day of the month on which the repayment is made
At Northern we use the term "Home Loan" rather than "Mortgage". That’s because, technically speaking, a "Mortgage" is a legal document which secures a loan against property. What the Bank actually provides is a Loan which helps you to buy your Home, hence the term "Home Loan".
Making these initial choices about amount, term, type of loan, interest rates and repayment frequency, are the first steps in identifying what exactly you need from your Home Loan and making sure that it suits those needs. We call this process "Tailoring" and hence what we provide is a Tailored Financial Solution.
The Repayment Schedule
Once the basic structure of your Home Loan is determined we then work out your repayment schedule, we want to put you, the customer, in control - it is after all your Home Loan and Your Repayment Schedule.
With a Standard Northern Home Loan, your repayments go towards paying back interest only or a combination of both capital and interest. At today’s interest rates, your total interest payments can amount to a substantial sum. With a Northern Tailored Home Loan, you are encouraged to increase your Gross Repayments by an amount which you can comfortably afford.
There are a number of ways in which you can do this :
- Increase your monthly repayments
- Annual Step-ups in repayments
- Ad-hoc Lump Sum repayments
1. Increase your monthly repayments
With this option you choose exactly how much you wish to repay each month, as long as it is greater than the minimum. The amount you choose can be adjusted at any time, so you can pay extra when you can comfortably afford it and reduce your repayments at times of heavy expenditure such as Christmas and holidays.
2. Annual Step-ups in repayments
With this option, your repayments remain the same throughout each year, however at the end of each year your repayments are "stepped up" by a percentage which you choose eg. if you choose a 1% step up on your repayments of £500, your repayments will be increased by £5 (1%) at the end of year one and you will pay £505 each month the following year (year two) and so on.
3. Ad-hoc Lump Sum repayments
You may not want to pay an increased repayment amount every month and prefer to simply make extra lump sum repayments every now and again. If you receive a quarterly commission payment or perhaps an annual bonus, these can be used to pay off your home loan.
The Tailored Home Loan Package
The Home Loan is a core relationship product around which many of your other financial needs can be met. Some of these are required from the start of your Home Loan (a) but others will develop as the term of the Home Loan progresses and your circumstances change (b)
 
- Life Assurance
 Home & Contents Insurance
 Payment Protection
 Home Owners - Personal Loan
 Home Owners - Cash Reserve
 Current Account
 
- Personal Banker Service
 Financial Planning Service
 Savings Accounts
 Other Money Transmission Services
 Credit Cards
 Other Lending
 General Insurance
	 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 IMPORTANT INFORMATION
	 
The savings compare the Tailored Home Loan with our standard 25 year repayment Home Loan of the same amount.
	 
Written quotations are available on request. All loans are subject to status and applicants must be 18 or over. Security is required. One or more of the following policies may be required : Endowment, Pension Plan, Mortgage Guarantee.
	 
Interest rates and charges are correct as at 16 November 2001 but these may vary, which could affect repayments. Typical example : A Tailored Home Loan of £50,000 at 5.99% variable with 220 monthly repayments increased by approximately £50 to £375.00 saves £14,125.29 in interest charges and 6 years 8 months on the loan term. The APR 6.3% variable and total amount repayable £82,734.28 include £552.50 estimate for arrangement fee, legal and valuation costs. The maximum loan is 95%for First Time Buyers, 90% for existing property owners, based on the lower of the purchase price or valuation. For loans in excess of 90% of the lower of the cost or valuation of the property, Mortgage Guarantee Insurance is required.
	 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT
	 
Northern is a trading name of Northern Bank Limited and is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. It is a member of the National Australia Bank Group. It represents only the National Australia Life Marketing Group, whose companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for the purpose of advising on and selling life assurance products, pensions, adopted stakeholder pensions, ISAs and collective investment products. The sale and advice on personal loans, general insurance products and mortgages are not currently regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	 
Northern Bank Limited, Registered in Northern Ireland No. R568, Registered Office: Donegall Square West, Belfast, BT1 6JS.
	 
Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
