
BRISTOL & WEST
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
THE MORTGAGE CODE
	
The mortgage code provides 
	protection for you as a mortgage borrower. It sets out minimum standards which 
	mortgage lenders and intermediaries have to meet. these pages are designed to 
	introduce the mortgage code to you.
	
	
THE MORTGAGE CODE
	
By giving you these pages, your lender or intermediary is confirming to you that 
	they keep to the principles of the mortgage code. This provides important protection for you, as 
	the code sets out.:
	
	
	
- How your mortgage should be arranged;
	
- What information you should receive before you commit yourself; and
	
- How your mortgage should be dealt with once it is in place
	
	
	
If a lender or intermediary 
	fails to meet the standards of the code, and you suffer as a result, you have 
	the right to compensation under a compulsory independent complaints 
	scheme.
	
	
The rest of these pages 
	concentrate on the details which are most relevant to you when you are 
	arranging a mortgage. We then give you an outline of the code's main 
	commitments.
	
	
You can use these pages as a checklist to help you through the process of arranging a mortgage.
	
	
CHOOSING A MORTGAGE
	
There are three different 
	levels of service which your lender or intermediary may provide to help you 
	chose a suitable mortgage. The lender or intermediary will tell you at the 
	beginning, which of these levels of service they can provide. The levels 
	are:-
	
	
- Advice and a recommendation on which of the mortgages they can provide is most suitable for you;
	
- Information on the different types of mortgage product on offer so that you can make an informed 
	choice of which to take; or
	
- Information on a single mortgage product only, if only one mortgage is available or if you have already 
	made up your mind
	
	
Check that you understand which level of service you are being offered, and what this means for you.
	
Whichever level of service 
	they provide, your lender or intermediary should give you information on all the 
	following areas of the mortgage you are considering:-
	
	
- The repayment method (for example, endowment, capital and interest) and the repayment period.
	
- The financial consequences of repaying the mortgage early.
	
- The type of interest rate - variable, fixed, discounted capped and so on
	
- What your future repayments after any fixed or discounted period might be.
	
- Whether you have to take any insurance services with the mortgage, and if so, whether the insurance must 
	be arranged by the lender or intermediary. 
	
- The costs and fees which might be involved with the mortgage - valuation fees, arrangement fees, legal 
	fees, early redemption fees and so on.
	
- Whether you can continue with your selected mortgage terms if you move house.
	
- When your account details may be passed to credit reference agencies.
	
- Whether you need to pay a high percentage lending fee, and if so, what this means to you.
	
	
	
If you are using the 
	services of a mortgage intermediary to arrange the loan, they must also tell you 
	if they are receiving a fee from the lender for introducing the mortgage to the 
	lender. They must also let you know whether they usually arrange mortgages from 
	a number of selected lenders or from the market as a whole.
	
	
Before your mortgage is 
	completed, your lender or intermediary will confirm, in writing, the level of 
	service they have provided and the reasons for any mortgage recommendation (if 
	they gave you one). Check that you fully understand this written confirmation 
	and ask if there is anything that is still not clear to you at this 
	stage.
	
	
THE CODE'S MAIN COMMITMENTS
	
The code has 10 main commitments. Broadly speaking, these say that lenders and intermediaries 
	will:-
	
	
- Act fairly and reasonably with you at all times
	
- Make sure that all services and products keep to the conditions of the code, even if they have 
	their own terms and conditions.
	
- Give you information on services and products in plain language, and offer help if there is any area 
	which you do not understand;
	
- Help you to choose a mortgage to fit your needs, unless you have already decided on your mortgage; 
	
- Help you to understand the financial effects of having a mortgage; 
	
- Help you to understand how your mortgage account works; 
	
- Make sure that the procedures staff follow reflect the commitments set out in the code;
	
- Correct errors and handle complaints speedily;
	
- Consider cases of financial difficulty and mortgage arrears (missed payments) sympathetically and 
	positively; and 
	
- Make sure that all services and products meet the relevant laws and regulations
	
	
	
The code goes into more detail on each of these commitments.
	
	
KEEPING TO THE CODE
	
How the lenders or 
	intermediaries keep to the mortgage code is monitored independently. And any 
	organisation under the code must be a member of a recognised complaints scheme - 
	such as the Financial Ombudsman Service, or the Mortgage 
	Code Arbitration Scheme. This give you an extra level of protection, as each of 
	these schemes can award compensation of up to £100,000 to you if you suffer as a 
	result of your lender or intermediary failing to keep to the code. Your lender 
	or intermediary will be able to tell you which scheme applies.
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	The Council of Mortgage Lenders has made the following leaflets available for you to download: 
	
	
	
	
	The Mortgage Code
	
	You and your Mortgage
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	To View and print these leaflets you will need the Adobe Acrobat Reader plug-in 
	
	
	
	
Alternatively you can ask your mortgage lender or mortgage intermediary for a copy.
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
