Bank of Scotland
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	home >
	international >
	overseas operations >
	frankfurt - recent deals 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Home 
	
	
	Relationship Banking 
	
	
	Corporate Banking 
Products 
	
	
	Specialist Funding 
Solutions 
	
	
	International 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Payment and International Trade Services 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Overseas Operations 
	
	
	
	
	 
	- Amsterdam 
	
	
	 
	- Frankfurt 
	
	
	
	
	Frankfurt - recent
 deals 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Corporate Finance
 Newsletter 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 Deutsche Version
 
	
	
	
Cognis is a leading worldwide supplier of natural oil-based speciality chemicals. The company was carved out of its former parent Henkel in 1999 and finally sold to funds advised by Permira, Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and Schroder Ventures Life Sciences in November 2001. The total deal size was around &#128;2.5bn with a debt package arranged by Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, HypoVereinsbank and Schroder Salomon Smith Barney. Bank of Scotland entered into the transaction as a senior lead arranger. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
 Stefan Nau is one of the leading manufacturers of solar thermal systems, boilers and plastic tanks in Germany. ABN AMRO Capital acquired 100&#37; of the equity of Stefan Nau GmbH & Co. KG, together with the current management of the company. The transaction was structured as a leveraged buyout with Bank of Scotland providing debt and mezzanine finance. The total deal size was approximately &#128;27m with an equity portion in the region of 30-35&#37; of this amount. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
Kloeckner Pentaplast is a global market leader in the production of rigid films, particularly for food and pharmaceutical packaging. In autumn 2001 Cinven and the current management acquired the business from the vendor Kloeckner Werke AG for an overall consideration of &#128;925m. The debt package of &#128;633m was arranged and underwritten by Deutsche Bank and CSFB. In a pre-syndication phase BoS and three other banks backed the underwriting banks by providing &#128;100m each, which has been further syndicated to about &#128;35m in the general syndication process. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
 Kloeckner Pentaplast is a global market leader in the production of rigid films, particularly for food and pharmaceutical packaging. In autumn 2001 Cinven and the current management acquired the business from the vendor Kloeckner Werke AG for an overall consideration of &#128;925m. The debt package of &#128;633m was arranged and underwritten by Deutsche Bank and CSFB. In a pre-syndication phase BoS and three other banks backed the underwriting banks by providing &#128;100m each, which has been further syndicated to about &#128;35m in the general syndication process. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
 Loewen Play is Germany's second largest amusement arcade operator and currently runs more than 120 arcades and 100 single-site locations. ABN AMRO Capital acquired 100&#37; of the equity of Loewen Play GmbH &Co KG, together with the current management. The transaction was structured as a leveraged buyout with Bank of Scotland providing debt and mezzanine finance; the total deal size, which included capital for potential add-on acquisitions, was approximately &#128;35m. The debt portion was in the region of 65&#37; of this amount. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
 Huegel operates as a metal-stamping, welding and forming plant for the manufacture of assembly and attachment components for the automobile manufacturing and auto parts industry. In August 2001 Finatem Beteiligungsberatungs GmbH, a subsidiary of Financiere Natexis Banques Populaires, Paris acquired Huegel GmbH & Co. KG from private vendors in a management buyout valued at DM 107m. A debt package to support the transaction totaling DM 67m was provided by Bank of Scotland, including DM 55m senior debt and a DM 7m mezzanine strip, the remaining DM 5m was in the form of a short-term loan. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
 Messer Griesheim GmbH, headquartered in Frankfurt, is a global producer and distributor of industrial gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, argon and other speciality gases. In April 2001, a consortium consisting of funds advised by Allianz Capital Partners and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners acquired a 67&#37; stake in Messer from Aventis. Senior Secured Credit Facilities to the amount of &#128;1,650m were arranged to support the transaction, in which Bank of Scotland took a participation as Senior Co-Arranger with a commitment of &#128;150m. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
Coventya Group engineers plating processes and formulas and manufactures speciality chemicals for the electroplating industry in Europe. In autumn 2000 the group was sold by MG Technologies Group to funds advised by Quadriga Capital. The cross-border buyout was financed by Bank of Scotland with Senior Debt, Mezzanine and Working Capital. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
Katz Werke is the world market leader in the manufacture of beer mats and advertising coasters. In October 2000 funds advised by 3i acquired a majority stake in a NewCo (Interbrand Pro) created for the management buyout from Pfleiderer AG. Bank of Scotland provided Senior Debt and Mezzanine to support the acquisition. In August 2001 Interbrand Pro bought the Special Printing Division of Jarvis Porter. The transaction was financed by new equity from 3i and Senior Debt and Mezzanine from Bank of Scotland. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
Management 2000 is a temping agency which places blue collar workers in small and medium-sized companies primarily in the mechanical and electrical engineering, pipeline construction and heating and ventilation sectors. The group was sold by its founders in June 2000 to a management group backed by funds advised by Bridgepoint Capital. Debt totalling &#128;12.5m, including a working capital facility and &#128;3.5m mezzanine was provided by Bank of Scotland. 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
Essmann Group is a German-based system supplier for day lighting, ventilation, smoke & heat extraction and water drainage products for flat roofed industrial and commercial buildings. The group was sold at the end of 1999 by its Swedish parent Skanska Group in an institutional buyout with a total value of DM 120m with backing from Netherlands-based NIB Capital Holding, arranged by its Frankfurt office. Senior debt in excess of DM 75m was provided by Bank of Scotland to support the deal, which came in the form of term loans and working capital. 
	
	
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Relationship Banking
	Ongoing support for your company 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Structured Finance
	European market leader in debt for buy-outs 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Contact us: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Offices and contacts 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Email 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Other Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	HBOS plc Group Info 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Business Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Treasury Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	EURO Services 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
