
Social & Environmental Report 2001
 
	Barclays Home | Contact us | About Barclays 
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home : Community : 
 Social inclusion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
 
 
 
 
 Customers 
 
 
 
 
 Employees 
 
 
 
 
 Equality 
 and diversity 
 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Employee involvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Targeted support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Education 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The arts 
 
 
 
 
 
 People with disabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Social inclusion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The environment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Global communities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Results 
 
 
 
 
 Public Issues 
 
 
 
 
 Environment 
 
 
 
 
 Feedback/Contacts 
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Social inclusion
 
Our work on social inclusion seeks to promote 
 improvement in people's lives through collaborations with 
 organisations that have proven records of making a difference 
 in the community. One of our biggest new commitments during 
 2001 was our support for ChildLine, the UK's only free national 
 helpline for children. We pledged £2.29 million to the 
 charity over three years. This will help provide a new call 
 centre in Birmingham to give extra network capacity and reduce 
 the level of engaged calls.
 
To tackle social exclusion at its roots, 
 we are sponsoring two Barnardos projects, The Ley Hill Project 
 in Birmingham and the Children's Inclusion Project in Glasgow. 
 These projects aim to help make communities safer and happier 
 places for children to grow up. We are also sponsoring two 
 Barnardos' leaving care' centres which provide shelter, advice 
 and help to young people making the transition to independence. 
 Last year, we increased our support for people who have become 
 homeless, building on previous, predominantly London-based 
 work. We contributed to organisations including The Big Issue 
 in Scotland, The Salvation Army in Manchester, the Nomad Shelter 
 in Lincoln and Cambridge Foodbank.
 
We continued our support of Streetsmart, 
 a registered charity that provides food, clothing, shelter 
 and support for the homeless. Streetsmart won agreement from 
 more than 220 restaurants nationwide to add £1 to each 
 table's bill throughout November and December. The scheme 
 raised an estimated £260,000 - a 6.2% increase on 2000 
 - which was distributed onwards to small local charities for 
 the homeless. Barclays contribution of £88,750 in 2001 
 met the initiative's administrative, production and promotional 
 costs. In addition we made a £25,000 initial contribution 
 to the fund.
 
Barclays again sponsored Crisis London Open 
 Christmas. The funding helped provide homeless people in London 
 with a shelter over the Christmas period and access to clothing,medical 
 and dental care, and resettlement advice.
 
Our involvement with YouthNet in the Surf-IT 
 project meant young people in socially deprived areas could 
 surf the net for free through 10 special web points. They 
 were able to access information on accommodation, employment 
 and careers, and make contact with families and friends.
 Bridging the digital divide
 
As one of the UK's leading online banks, 
 we are keen to help people everywhere get to grips with internet 
 technology. During 2002, we will be working with the UK charity 
 Age Concern to help older people access information and communication 
 technology. Mobile IT units will take technology and technology 
 training to socially and geographically isolated individuals. 
 We are also helping The Samaritans expand its e-mail service 
 by funding training and technical support for volunteers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Print PDF of... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Report 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
