
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your 
 Home > Rapid Repay > Important Information
 
Your Home
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Information
 
This Facility is not available for business purposes.
 
Written quotations are available on request. All loans are subject 
 to status and applicants must be 18 or over. A first mortgage or 
 charge over your property will be required as security for this 
 facility.
 
The minimum loan amount is £50,000. Your salary (or in the 
 case of joint borrowers the primary salary) must be paid into the 
 current account.
 
The Safety Limit reduces until the loan is fully repaid and can 
 be set to reduce over any term up to 25 years. The Safety Limit 
 is based on what would otherwise have been the balance of our 25 
 year standard repayment home loan.
 
The savings which you are able to make, are based on comparing 
 our Rapid Repay Facility to our standard 25 year repayment Home 
 Loan (on which daily interest is calculated) of the same amount. 
 For example, if you had a Rapid Repay Facility of £65,000 
 and you paid £2,000 into your account each month and spent 
 £1,500 at even intervals throughout the month, you would have 
 a surplus of £500 in the account to reduce your outstanding 
 loan amount and cover any debit interest due. By leaving this amount 
 each month you could pay off your Home Loan 7 years and 8 months 
 early and save £24,645.39 in interest.
 
Interest rates and charges are correct as at 1 June 2002 but these 
 may vary which could affect repayments.
 
Typical example: for a Rapid Repay Facility of £65,000 over 
 17 years and 4 months if you paid £2,000 into your account 
 each month and spent £1,500 at even intervals throughout the 
 month, you will pay interest at the rate of 5.49% per annum (variable) 
 (APR 6.2% variable). You must pay whatever amount is required at 
 any time to ensure that your Safety Limit is not exceeded. The APR 
 includes an arrangement fee of £200, solicitor's mortgage 
 charges estimated to be £235.00, a professional valuation 
 estimated at £146.88, a monthly maintenance fee of £10 
 and a deeds release fee currently £50. The maximum loan is 
 90% of the value of the property for Rapid Repay Facility, based 
 on the lower of the purchase price or valuation. Loans of more than 
 75% of the lower of purchase price or valuation may require a professional 
 valuation and an additional fee.
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP 
 UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
Northern is a trading name of Northern Bank Limited and is regulated 
 by the Financial Services Authority(FSA). It is a member of the 
 National Australia Bank Group. It represents only the National Australia 
 Life Marketing Group, whose companies are regulated by the FSA for 
 the purpose of advising on and selling life assurance products, 
 pensions, adopted stakeholder pensions, ISA 's and collective investment 
 products. 
 
Credit facilities are not regulated by the FSA.
 
Northern Bank Limited is a member of the Financial Services Compensation 
 Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 
 2000. In respect of credit balances with a UK office, payments under 
 the Scheme are limited to 100% of the first £2,000 of a depositor's 
 total credit balances with the bank and 90% of the next £33,000, 
 resulting in a maximum payment of £31,700. Most depositors, 
 including individuals and small firms, are covered. The Scheme covers 
 deposits made with the offices of the bank within the European Economic 
 Area and deposits denominated in all currencies are treated alike. 
 Further details of the Scheme are available on request.
 
Fees and Charges
 Please refer to our Fees & Charges Explained leaflet for details 
 of all charges associated with Rapid Repay.
 
Credit Interest
 You will be paid credit interest if the balance of your current 
 account and Rapid Repay Facility is in credit. Please refer to our 
 Interest Rate Leaflet for further details
 
The Banking Code
 At Northern we subscribe to The Banking Code - a voluntary code 
 which sets standards of good practice for banks and building societies 
 to follow in dealing with personal customers in the UK. It offers 
 you valuable protection by explaining how we are obliged to deal 
 with any problems, should they arise. A copy of the Code is available 
 from Northern branches.
 
The Mortgage Code:
 At Northern we subscribe to the Mortgage Code and provide information 
 on the different types of mortgage products we offer, so that you 
 can make an informed choice of which to take. Copies of the Code 
 are available on request. Please ask for a copy of "You and 
 Your Mortgage", a leaflet is available from Northern branches.
 
Northern Bank Limited
 Registered in Northern Ireland
 Number R568
 Registered Office:
 Donegall Square West
 Belfast BT1 6JS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rapid Repay 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Benefits 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Personal Illustration 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Downloads 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Important Information 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 What the Press are saying 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
