
 
Sainsbury's Bank - Insurance - rebuilding calculator
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 home insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > the cover 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > any questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > making a claim 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > some definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > terms & conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > apply now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 travel insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 pet insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 life assurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You'll need to make sure your house is covered for the whole cost of rebuilding it.
 
This calculator will help you work out the amount of your buildings sum insured. All you have to do is fill in the information about your house below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 select 
 region 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 London and Channel Islands* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 South East 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 South West, North West, Eastern, Scotland 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 North East, East Midlands, West Midlands, Yorkshire and the Humber, Wales and Northern Ireland* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 type 
 of house 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 house year range 
 
 
 
 
 Pre 1920
 1920-1945
 1946-1979
 1980-date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 measurement 
 of the outside area of your home 
 
 
 
 
 
 ground floor (Xm long x Xm wide) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 sq.m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 first floor (Xm long x Xm wide) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 sq.m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 total area 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 sq.m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 if applicable, add an allowance for: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 a separate garage 
 
 
 
 £
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 conservatories, sheds, patios, walls 
 etc. 
 
 
 
 £
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 luxury fittings e.g. double glazing, 
 quality kitchen 
 
 
 
 £
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
our rebuilding cost guarantee 
 We'll pay the cost of work carried out in repairing or replacing the 
 damaged parts of the buildings. However, providing the qualifying conditions 
 shown below are met we'll pay the full rebuilding cost, subject to the 
 deduction of any applicable excess, even if it's more than the buildings 
 sum insured. 
 
 
 
- The home must be a house, not a flat or maisonette 
 
- The home must either have walls constructed of brick, stone or concrete 
 and roofs made of tiles, slates, asbestos or concrete or have a modern 
 timber frame clad in brick and roofed in tile, slate or asbestos 
 
- The buildings sum insured must be based on a professional insurance 
 valuation by a surveyor or valuer dated on or after 1st January 1981
 
 
 
The buildings sum insured at the beginning of the guarantee must not 
 exceed £250,000. It must also be set at an amount not less than the 
 estimated full rebuilding cost of the home according to the 
 Guide to house rebuilding costs for insurance valuations prepared 
 by the Building Cost Information Service of the Royal Institution of 
 Chartered Surveyors or an acceptable alternative. The buildings sum 
 insured shall thereafter be adjusted in line with the House Rebuilding 
 Costs for Insurance Valuations, or similar index. If at any time the 
 home is extended, modified or improved in a way that will increase the 
 full rebuilding cost, we must be given full details and the buildings 
 sum insured adjusted accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
