
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 	 
 Personal Customers 
 
	 
 	 
 Business Customers 
 
	 
 	 
 All Customers already registered Telephone Banking 
 
	 
 	 
 All Customers registered for Telephone Banking but forgotten details 
 
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet 
 Banking > Registration 
 > Personal and Business Customers
 
Personal and Business Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Registration for All customers who have forgotten their Telephone Banking details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Phone Call Centre to re-register 
 for Telephone Banking. 
 
 Dial 08457 365 365 and select the Register for 24 Hour Telephone Banking, choose 
 option 3. Please inform the advisor that you wish to register for 
 Internet Banking.
 
Please have the following documents 
 to hand:
 Your account details - Sorting code and Account number
 Details of your last few account transactions 
 
 You will be asked:
 Questions to confirm your identity
 To choose a 4 digit Access Code Number and unique password
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You will receive Telephone 
 Banking Welcome pack in the 
 post.
 You will receive Internet Banking 
 one time password in the post.
 
 The Telephone Banking Welcome pack will contain the information 
 you need to complete your Telephone Banking registration, the one 
 time password will be used the first time you login to Internet 
 Banking.
 
When you have received both, please complete stages 3 and 4.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Phone Call Centre 
 to input Telephone Banking 
 registration reference.
 Dial 08457 365 365 choose option 1.
 
 Please have the following information 
 to hand:
 Your Telephone Banking Welcome Pack
 
 You will be asked:
 To input 
 your registration reference, after inputting your Customer Number 
 and Access Code Number
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Login to Internet 
 Banking for the first time 
 
 Have you checked your internet 
 browser security settings and updated them as necessary? If 
 so, click "Register for Internet Banking" below.
 
 Please have the following information 
 to hand:
 Your account 
 details - Sorting Code and Account Number
 Your 24 
 hour Telephone Banking Customer Number 
 4 digit Access Code Number
 Internet 
 Banking One Time Password
 
 
 You will be asked:
 To choose 
 three prompted security questions, please note, input is case sensitive
 To choose 
 your own unique password, please note, input is case sensitive
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For security, telephone calls may be recorded and monitored.
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
	
Frequently asked questions about Registration
	 
 
	
 
 
	
	
	How do I input my One Time Password?	
	
	Why am I getting the error "Page cannot be displayed"?	
	
	Why can't I view the "Accept" button?	
	
	What is the Customer Number?	
	
	Why do my details fail validation?	
	
	
	How do I input my One Time Password?	
	
	Your One Time Password is a 16-digit password made up of alphabetic and numeric characters. It will be sent to you on your Internet Banking Welcome Letter. To reveal the password, peel back the password strip at the bottom right hand side of the letter.
Letters must be input as UPPERCASE, numbers are identified by an underscore.
The one time password is only used once. When the password has been entered correctly, you will be invited to change it to a password of your choice.	
	
	Why am I getting the error "Page cannot be displayed"?	
	
	The most likely reason that you are getting the above errors is the security level (encryption level) on your browser software. The security level must be 128-bit encryption. To check your encryption level, please see the Technical Requirements page.	
	
	Why can't I view the "Accept" button?	
	
	The problems you are experiencing may be due to the screen resolution on your PC.
To view the Accept button on the Terms and Conditions screen, try pressing the &lsquo;F11&rsquo; key on your keyboard. This should enlarge the screen to full size.
Alternatively, try pressing the tab key five times. This should highlight the &lsquo;accept&rsquo; button. By pressing enter, you should be able to proceed to the next stage.	
	
	What is the Customer Number?	
	
	Your customer number is a ten digit number beginning &lsquo;30&rsquo;, which will be detailed in your 24 Hour Telephone Banking Welcome Pack. This number is specific to you. You will require this number to register for our Internet Banking service, and subsequently, each time you log on to Internet Banking.
If you have not received this number, or simply forgotten it, please contact our 24-Hour Telephone Banking Help Desk on 08457 365365.	
	
	Why do my details fail validation?	
	
	It may be that you have entered incorrect details at the registration stage. Please check that you are entering the correct information as detailed below:
- Full ten-digit customer number. This can be found in your 24 Hour Telephone Banking Welcome Pack.
- Four-digit access code number. You would have chosen this number, when you initially registered for our 24-Hour Telephone Banking Service.
- Six digit sort code.
- Full eight-digit account number. This can be found on your chequebook, or autobank card.	
	 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	 
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, 
	
	click here.
	 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
