
Personal Finances - Savings & Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Links to other sections
 _____________________________
 Personal Finances
 Small Business
 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets
 Group Information
 Online
 Economics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home > 
 Personal Finances >
 Savings & Investments 
 > Jargon Buster 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Savings Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investment Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sharedealing Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Children and Teenage 
 Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal Finances
 
 
 Jargon Buster
We've made it easy to 
understand the terms used in this site. Look below for simple explanations.
Introduction
Savings
These accounts are a safe and secure place to keep your cash. The Royal Bank 
pays you interest at various rates depending on the type of account and the 
amount of money you keep in it. So by keeping your money in a savings account, 
you can watch it grow. Some savings accounts allow you to take your money out 
immediately at any branch. Other types of account mean you have to let us know 
in advance if you want to withdraw money. The accounts that ask you for notice 
usually pay a higher rate of interest. You can open a savings account at any 
branch. We ask for some identification and there&#146;s often a minimum amount you 
are allowed to deposit.
Investments
These can be made in many ways, for example:
ISAs
Bonds
Unit Trusts
Endowments
Interest
This is money that we pay into your account as a reward for keeping your 
savings with us. Simple Interest is the percentage applied each day on the 
amount of money in your account. Because interest is added to your account 
(either monthly, quarterly or annually) your total savings are always 
increasing, so you're earning interest on the original amount invested plus 
interest on the interest. This feature is known as Compound Interest.
Tiered Interest
This means each time your total savings reach the next band or tier, you get a 
higher interest rate. An example is listed in the table below:
 
 
 
 Amount in 
 account 
 
 Compound 
 gross annual rate of interest 
 
 Amount 
 payable in interest per year 
 
 
 
 £100-£499 
 
 2.5% 
 
 Say £200 
 balance
 2.5% x £200 = £5 
 
 
 
 £500-£999 
 
 3.0% 
 
 Say £800 
 balance
 3% x £800 = £24 
 
 
 
 £1000-£4999 
 
 3.5% 
 
 Say £2000 
 balance
 3.5% x £2000 = £70 
 
 
 
 £5000-£9999 
 
 4.0% 
 
 Say £8000 
 balance
 4% x £8000 = £320 
 
Gross and Net Interest
Gross interest means interest paid without tax being taken off. The bank can pay 
interest gross if you are a non tax payer - all you need to do is fill out a 
simple R85 form (these forms are available from any branch). Net interest is 
interest paid after tax has been taken off.
Types of accounts
There are two main types of savings account. Instant access and Notice 
accounts:
Instant Access
These accounts allow you to take money out at any time. And because these 
accounts usually come with a Cashline card, you can withdraw your money from 
cash machines across the country. An example of this type of account is the 
Royal Bank's Instant Access Savings Account.
Notice accounts
These accounts ask you to give us warning in writing if you&#146;re going to take any 
money from the account. Different notice accounts ask for different periods of 
notice and it&#146;s easy to select the period that suits you best. Generally 
speaking, the longer the period of notice, the higher the rate of interest we 
pay. It is still possible to take money out of notice accounts without giving 
notice, but there is a penalty to pay depending on which type of account. 
Examples of this type of account include the Royal Bank's
30 Day Savings Account and
60 Day Savings Account.
Typical working example of a savings account
This is where we let you see how a savings account might work in a real 
life situation. The rates of interest are simply examples and don't relate to 
the actual rates of interest available on these products. The example figures 
below give you a rough idea of what you might expect to get back and of some 
other savings details, but they don't relate to any of our accounts in 
particular.
 
 
 
 Name Mr 
 Jones: Savings £10,000 
 
 
 
 Account type 
 
 Amount of 
 money invested 
 
 Annual gross 
 interest rate 
 
 Immediate 
 withdrawal penalty 
 
 Total 
 savings after one year 
 
 Notice 
 required 
 
 
 
 Instant Access 
 
 £10,000 
 
 3.15% 
 
 none 
 
 £10,315 
 
 no notice 
 
 
 
 30 Day Notice 
 
 £10,000 
 
 4.15% 
 
 30 days' 
 interest 
 
 £10,415 
 
 30 days 
 
 
 
 60 Day Notice 
 
 £10,000 
 
 4.90% 
 
 60 days' 
 interest 
 
 £10,490 
 
 60 days 
 
Glossary
The following is a glossary of the Savings and Investment Terms:
 
 
 
 Glossary 
 
 
 
 Bonds 
 
 Life assurance 
 lump sum savings plans. 
 
 
 
 Bonus 
 payment 
 
 Some savings 
 accounts reward you with an extra payment if you meet certain conditions. 
 For example an annual bonus may be paid if no withdrawals are made in the 
 year and the balance doesn&#146;t fall below an agreed amount. 
 
 
 
 Cirrus 
 
 Cirrus is an 
 international network of cash machines which allow you to withdraw money in 
 local currency in a number of different countries. 
 
 
 
 Annual 
 Equivalent Rate 
 
 AER stands for 
 Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the gross interest rate would be 
 if interest was paid and compounded each year. As every advert for a 
 savings product which quotes a rate of interest will contain an AER, you 
 will be able to compare more easily what return you can expect from your 
 savings over time. 
 
 
 
 Endowment 
 
 A savings plan 
 that involves making monthly payments for a set period. At the end of the 
 period the policy "matures" and pays out a tax-free lump sum. The savings 
 plan comes in the form of a life assurance policy and includes cover in the 
 event of death. 
 
 
 
 Interest 
 
 This is the 
 bonus that banks promise to pay if you keep your money with them. Rates are 
 usually a percentage of the amount in the account and are calculated on a 
 daily basis. 
 
 
 
 Maestro 
 
 Maestro is an 
 international debit card system which allow you to pay for goods and 
 services overseas at retailers who display the sign. It works in a similar 
 way to Switch in the UK. 
 
 
 
 Penalty 
 
 Penalties are 
 occasionally incurred if you break the conditions of the account. For 
 example if the account required 60 days notice and you make an instant 
 withdrawal, you would be penalised the equivalent of 60 days' interest. 
 
 
 
 
 ISAs 
 
 ISAs are the 
 new tax-efficient way to save and can be made up of three components: cash, 
 stocks and shares and life insurance. There are two types of ISA &#150; mini and 
 maxi. With a mini ISA, you can opt for just one of these components, though 
 you can take out up to three mini ISAs in any tax year &#150; one for each 
 component. All of these could be held with different ISA providers. A maxi 
 ISA lets you combine the stocks and shares component with cash and/or 
 insurance. You can only take out one maxi ISA in any tax year and this must 
 be with a single provider. The Royal Bank of Scotland offer two
 mini cash ISAs. 
 
 
 
 Unit Trusts 
 
 When you invest 
 in a Unit Trusts, your money is grouped together with that of many other 
 investors so that costs are kept to a minimum. Your investment is spread 
 over many different types of stocks and shares by an investment management 
 team and so the risks are also lower. ** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please see Important Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
