
BRISTOL & WEST
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
easyflex, our easy to manage range of flexible mortgages, is designed to 
	keep pace with your life. With easyflex, you can:
 
	
	
 
	Pay off your mortgage early 
	 - by making overpayments, which could save you thousands of pounds. Click on 
	 easyflex Total, easyflex Buy to Let, 
	 easyflex Self Certification or easyflex 
	 Overpay to find out how.
	 
	
 
	Pay less when you need to 
	 - if you need to go easy on your spending for a while. Click on 
	 easyflex Total, easyflex Buy to Let, 
	 easyflex Self Certification or easyflex 
	 Overpay to find out how.
	 
	
 
	Take a payment holiday 
	 - if you need to pay an unexpected bill, or make a major purchase. Click on 
	 easyflex Total, easyflex Buy to Let, or 
	 easyflex Self Certification to find out how.
 
	
 
	Access your overpayments 
	 - if you need some cash quickly, we’ll make sure you have your funds available the next day. Click on 
	 easyflex Total, easyflex Buy to Let, 
	 or easyflex Self Certification to find out how.
	 
	
 
	Borrow more 
	 - to enjoy a far more convenient rate than a standard personal loan. Click on 
	 easyflex Total to find out how.
	 
	
	What’s more, you can also benefit from daily calculation of interest - so you should never pay more in interest 
	than you need to.
	
	There are four easyflex mortgages on offer:
	
	For all the above options, choose easyflex Total
	To pay off your mortgage early, choose easyflex Overpay
	If you’re planning to rent out a property, choose easyflex Buy to Let
	If you’ve got a variable income, choose easyflex Self Certification
	
	Whichever options you choose, our dedicated easyflex Helpdesk is there to help you make the most of your 
	mortgage, so you stay in control, at all times.
	
	The easyflex Helpdesk helps you manage your mortgage with confidence.
	
 - we’ll make the changes for you - instantly, whilst you’re on the line
	
 - we’ll send you written confirmation - so you’ll always know where you stand
	 
	Getting what you want from a mortgage has never been easier.
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
