
Social & Environmental Report 2001
 
	Barclays Home | Contact us | About Barclays 
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home : Community : Employee involvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
 
 
 
 
 Customers 
 
 
 
 
 Employees 
 
 
 
 
 Equality 
 and diversity 
 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Employee involvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Targeted support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Education 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The arts 
 
 
 
 
 
 People with disabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Social inclusion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The environment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Global communities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Results 
 
 
 
 
 Public Issues 
 
 
 
 
 Environment 
 
 
 
 
 Feedback/Contacts 
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee involvement
 
Barclays employees are tremendous supporters 
 of the communities in which they work and live. We actively 
 encourage and provide practical support to staff in making 
 their own individual contributions to the community, either 
 through personal fund-raising or donating their time and expertise. 
 In 2001, we saw a significant uplift in employee involvement, 
 with more than 10,200 UK employees and retired staff getting 
 involved in community projects of different kinds.
 
Despite that success, we recognise that 
 overall employee awareness of our community affairs programme 
 is not as high as it could be and, in 2002, we will be working 
 hard to ensure that even more colleagues are aware of the 
 programme and are encouraged to participate.
 
Mentoring is an important avenue for employees 
 to give their time and skills over the long term. We have 
 developed a range of mentoring opportunities including a scheme 
 we are currently piloting with The Passage, a London-based 
 charity for the homeless. In addition, 145 small business 
 staff act as volunteer mentors for businesses supported by 
 The Prince's Trust. As well as mentoring Trust clients, Barclays 
 has seven staff representatives on the boards of local Trust 
 offices, and a further 17 employees acting as panel members. 
 We also enable highly experienced former members of staff 
 to offer their services to charities and voluntary organisations 
 like Salford Money Line (see also Personal 
 customers). 
 
Every year, we celebrate the involvement 
 of Barclays people in community activities through the Chairman's 
 Awards for Community and Diversity. In 2001, Barclays employees 
 from as far afield as Mauritius, Kenya and San Francisco, 
 as well as many parts of the UK, were among the winners.
 
The enthusiasm of staff for community activities 
 inspires the whole organisation. As well as helping create 
 vibrant local communities, we believe it sets us apart in 
 the eyes of our customers, increases the value of our brand 
 for our shareholders, and raises employees' pride in working 
 for Barclays.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Print PDF of... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Report 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
