
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your 
 Home > Rapid Repay > What the Press are saying > New scheme shakes up the foundation of old mortgages 
 
Your Home
	
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New scheme shakes up the foundation of old mortgages
 
NEWS LETTER
PAGE: 24
DATE: Saturday 13th April 2002
By Adrienne McGill
Thousands of home owners in Northern Ireland with a 25-year mortgage find themselves burdened with massive mortgage repayments and a substantial amount going on interest every month. But who said a mortgage had to last 25 years? Wouldn't it be wonderful if you could clear your mortgage in half the time you expected to?
Well, that may now be possible with the launch by the Northern Bank of an innovative scheme which could save new home owners in the Province around £700 million a year.
Rapid Repay provides all a home owner's day-to-day lifetime banking requirements in-just one account - a current account, overdraft, personal loan, mortgage and savings facilities. According to the Northern Bank, if the 30,000 new mortgages taken out in Northern Ireland each year at an average value of £56,500, were Rapid Repay mortgages instead of 25-year standard repayment mortgages, new homeowners could save cumulatively a massive £691m.
The scheme has been developed in response to increasing demand from homeowners, looking not only to free themselves from their mortgages while they are young but also to increase their financial flexibility.
Rapid Repay offers a new way of finding the extra financial flexibility that could not only help home owners, but also save them years of unnecessary interest on their home loan.
It works like this most homeowners' salaries are paid into a current account and their mortgage repayment is debited from this account at a regular point during each month.
This means, from the time their salary is paid in until the mortgage payment goes out, they have a sizeable sum of money sitting idle in the account, earning little or no interest.
However, because Northern Bank's Rapid Repay account is a combined current account and mortgage, and features daily interest calculation, every penny paid into the account starts working, immediately by reducing the outstanding loan balance thereby saving interest.
Homeowners can also make use of Rapid Repay as the most effective form of instant-access borrowing (with a built in safety limit to ensure the loan is paid off at the end of the agreed term) and as a tax-free saving facility.
Katherine James, General Manager, Personal Financial Services, Northern Bank, says the scheme is ideally suited to people who want to take more control of their finances.
"One of the benefits to a customer who has savings on deposit and also a mortgage is that interest" rates are the lowest they have been in 36 years, which means that people who have money sitting on deposit aren't earning a lot of money from that.
"For those people the best way and most tax efficient means of using it to offset their interest payments on their mortgage.
"A 25 year mortgage has become the norm. - but who said 25 years is appropriate? Some people wish to get rid of the biggest part of their debt in a shorter period of time than that and free themselves up.
"It could cause a complete re-think about how you finance a home. This is more than just financing a home-it is a whole package of savings and also borrowings that puts the control back into the hands of the customer."
However, it is still not the sort of product that everyone wants - it requires a fair degree of financial management, so won't suit those who don't keep an eye on finances. But, as Katherine explains, people are now more financially aware than they used to be.
"Rapid Repay is ideal for people who like to be able to manipulate and control their own finances but guidance is available when they need it. It is brilliant for people who budget effectively.
"It works as a cash flow management account rather than a mortgage account.
"By using the cash flow manipulation and any spare cash you have in savings to offset against your mortgage, you are getting the benefit of being able to use that to pay off your mortgage quicker"
Traditionally, banks have promoted investments in terms of `buckets' - putting money into savings, a current account, personal loan or mortgage. But with Rapid Repay the emphasis is on forgetting about the `bucket'.
"However there will be some customers who still want to have their accounts managed separately," says Katherine.
The Northern Bank's sister, the Bank of New Zealand, which, like the Northern is part of the National Australia Group has been operating the scheme for the past four years and customers have bought into it very quickly.
Northern Ireland born Julie Smith-Holley who spent 17 years in New Zealand but is now living in Newtownabbey was one of the first people to try out the scheme when she lived in New Zealand. She says the advantage is that customers can see what using their savings to their best advantage can do for them. 
"We managed to pay off our 15 year mortgage which was NZD $127,000 (£39,000) within 5 years. By having all your money going into one account it means the mortgage is coming down much faster.
"However you have to be able to manage your money well but it is simple and easy to use. It took us six weeks to modify it to suit our lifestyle and get into the system".
The scheme could radically shake-up the way home loans have been provided in the past. Putting control of finances into people's own hand's could create a nation of astute financial managers.
"Rapid Repay is also the mortgage totally suited for today's economic climate. It doesn't rely on a stock market performance linked investment to clear the capital and home owners can realistically cut their mortgage term in half, allowing them to fully focus on the future," adds Katherine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rapid Repay 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Benefits 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Personal Illustration 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Downloads 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Important Information 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 What the Press are saying 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
