
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Your Questions Answered 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal > Online Personal Loans
 
Online Personal Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whether it’s a car... computer... holiday... or something for the
 home, if your heart’s set on it, we could help you get it.
 
Our low interest
 rates make a Yorkshire Bank Fixed Rate Personal Loan a very
 affordable way to help you do the things you want.
 
You can apply right now - everything you need
 is here. Alternatively, you can call 0800 328 6868* or call into
 your local branch. 
 
Our low rate Personal Loans have guaranteed
 fixed repayments for the duration of the loan. 
 
We’ll suit your needs...Use our Fixed Rate
 Personal Loan illustrator to find an amount and monthly repayment
 that suits you best. 
 
You won’t have to wait - If applying online, we 
 can usually give you a response within one working day of you submitting 
 your application form. Your loan will be automatically paid into 
 your bank account once we've received your signed loan agreement 
 and any supporting documentation. 
 
Please note only existing Yorkshire Bank customers can apply for 
 a Personal Loan via this website. If you do not currently hold an 
 account with us but would like to apply for a Personal Loan, please 
 call 0800 328 6868 or call in to your nearest branch.
 
 
Use our Illustrator
 to see how a Yorkshire Bank Fixed Rate Personal Loan could benefit
 you.
 
Applying online
 
You can access our online application form
 using the links on the right, at the top of this page. We recommend
 that you read about our Payment Protection before starting your appliction. 
 
If you have any questions you can e-mail us or you can speak to one of
 our telephone advisors on 0800 328 6868*. 
 
Before
 applying, you may find it useful to ensure that you meet the following
 eligibility criteria: 
 
 
- You are over 18 years of age
 
- You are a UK resident
 
- You have a good credit history
 
- You have a current account with a UK bank
 Please note, this list is not exhaustive
 
 
On completing your application, we will present
 you with some important legal information which you should read
 and accept before submitting your application. To help you, we have
 summarised the key points below: 
 
 
- As with most
 loan providers we will use a Credit Reference Agency to help us
 in our assessment of your application. A record of this will be
 held by the Agency and they may make it known to to other companies
 who are assessing future applications from you or members of your
 household that a previous record is held but will not disclose
 the details of it. 
 
- We will hold
 the information you provide to us on our computers for future
 use. We may contact you in the future unless you ask us not to.
 If we do contact you in the future it will only be regarding something
 that we may think you may benefit from or may be interested in.
 
 
 
You may be asked to provide further information,
 for example wage slips and bank statements and we will formally
 request any such requirements when we telephone you with our decision.
 
 
Once your Personal Loan has been approved,
 we will send you out two copies of the loan agreement, with full
 terms and conditions. You should read these carefully and sign both
 copies. Return one copy to us, and keep the other for your record.
 Once we have received your signed agreement, along with any supporting
 documentation we may have requested, your loan amount will be paid
 into your bank account.
 
*Telephone conversations may be recorded or
 monitored. This is for your security and with the aim of improving
 service and for staff training.
 
 
 
 
 
 Important 
 Information 
 
Written quotations are available on request. Loans 
 are subject to status and the rate at which we lend 
 will reflect our assessment of your personal circumstances 
 and your chosen loan amount. Applicants must be aged 
 18 or over. 
 
A typical fixed Personal Loan of £5500 including optional 
 Payment Protection Insurance of £968.14 over 48 months 
 (13.9% APR) is 
 repayable by 47 monthly instalments of £173.84 and one 
 payment of £173.42. Total amount repayable £8343.90. 
 
 
A typical fixed Personal Loan of £5500 over 48 months 
 (13.9% APR) is 
 repayable by 47 monthly instalments of £147.82 and one 
 payment of £147.46. Total amount repayable £7095.00. 
 
 
The APR varies depending on the amount and length of 
 the loan and the repayment dates. Rates are correct 
 at 8 September 2001. 
 
This is a typical example of a selected repayment at 
 our typical APR.
 
The interest is tiered and based on the loan amount 
 requested, excluding any amount for Payment Protection 
 Insurance. Any amount borrowed for Payment Protection 
 Insurance will be deducted from the total loan advanced.
 
If you are not happy with any aspect of our service, please request a copy of our internal complaint handling procedures. Our aim is to resolve complaints to the satisfaction of our customers. However, if in the unlikely event that you disagree with the decision we have made, you can refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Details are available on request.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal Loan Illustrator* 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Apply Online* 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Continue with a Previous Application* 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Payment Protection 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 	
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
