
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your Home > Home Loans > Saving Time and Money
 
Your Home
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
Saving Time and Money
	 
For Capital and Interest Repayment Home Loans the extra repayments accelerate the pace at which your Home Loan is paid off, so reducing both the term and the interest paid.
	 
For Interest Only Home Loans, the extra repayments reduce the amount of capital outstanding, so decreasing the amount of interest paid during the term of the loan and reducing the amount required for the loan from the proceeds of your investment.
	 
The savings you can achieve depends on the original loan amount and term, along with the amount by which you increase your repayments.
	 
	 
- Interest Calculations
	 
- Flexibility and Control
	 
	 
Interest Calculations
	 
When choosing your Home Loan, you need to look at the interest rate you will be charged and also how and when your interest is calculated and applied to your loan.
	 
At Northern, we look at your account every day. Repayments are credited to your account on the same day they are made. This reduces the outstanding balance on your loan. We then recalculate the interest on this reduced balance, with immediate effect.
	 
Flexibility and Control
	 
With a Northern Tailored Home Loan, the emphasis is on repaying amounts you can comfortably afford.
	 
Repayments can also accommodate your changing needs and changing circumstances.
	 
As you progress through the term of your Home Loan, you may receive pay rises, gain promotion or change jobs, all events that will enable you to repay a little bit extra.
	 
However 25 years is a long time and there can be difficult periods as well as successful ones. For example, your partner may wish to take a career break to return to full time education or start a family. All of a sudden your monthly income is reduced by half, yet the same monthly bills continue to fall through the letter box.
	 
With a Tailored Home Loan, Northern can help you during this time by reducing your monthly repayment amount to what it was before you started to pay that little bit extra and indeed below it, as long as you pay off the loan within the original term selected.
	 
Peace of Mind
	 
As you tailor your repayment schedule and pay what you can comfortably afford, you build up a safety net for the future. If you then have a year of heavy expenditure ahead eg. a son or daughter going to university, a family wedding or even the holiday of a life time, you can reduce your repayments during that period, provided you repay the loan within the original term.
	 
You can make the adjustments any time during the term of your Home Loan. There is no charge and at all times you have the peace of mind that comes from knowing you are in control.
	 
Tailoring your repayment schedule also allows you to build up a cushion against future interest rate rises. Because you are "getting ahead of yourself" in your repayment schedule, the minimum amount required to repay the loan within the remaining term actually falls. So as interest rates rise you have the choice of retaining your repayments at their existing level or even reducing them.
	 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 IMPORTANT INFORMATION
	 
The savings compare the Tailored Home Loan with our standard 25 year repayment Home Loan of the same amount.
	 
Written quotations are available on request. All loans are subject to status and applicants must be 18 or over. Security is required. One or more of the following policies may be required : Endowment, Pension Plan, Mortgage Guarantee.
	 
Interest rates and charges are correct as at 16 November 2001 but these may vary, which could affect repayments. Typical example : A Tailored Home Loan of £50,000 at 5.99% variable with 220 monthly repayments increased by approximately £50 to £375.00 saves £14,125.29 in interest charges and 6 years 8 months on the loan term. The APR 6.3% variable and total amount repayable £82,734.28 include £552.50 estimate for arrangement fee, legal and valuation costs. The maximum loan is 95%for First Time Buyers, 90% for existing property owners, based on the lower of the purchase price or valuation. For loans in excess of 90% of the lower of the cost or valuation of the property, Mortgage Guarantee Insurance is required.
	 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT
	 
Northern is a trading name of Northern Bank Limited and is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. It is a member of the National Australia Bank Group. It represents only the National Australia Life Marketing Group, whose companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for the purpose of advising on and selling life assurance products, pensions, adopted stakeholder pensions, ISAs and collective investment products. The sale and advice on personal loans, general insurance products and mortgages are not currently regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	 
Northern Bank Limited, Registered in Northern Ireland No. R568, Registered Office: Donegall Square West, Belfast, BT1 6JS.
	 
Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tailoring Your Home Loan 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Home Loan Choices 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Saving Time and Money 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Interest Rate Types 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Find Out More 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
