
Clydesdale Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
 	 
 Asset Finance 
 
	 
 	 
 Debtor Finance 
 
	 
 	 
 Telebank Investment Account 
 
	 
 	 
 Cash Management Account 
 
	 
 	 
 Business Term Deposit 
 
	 
 	 
 Business Credit Card 
 
	 
 	 
 ClydePay 
 
	 
 	 
 Currency Account 
 
	 
 	 
 International Services 
 
	
	
	 
 	 
 Business Banking Tariff 
 
	
	 
 	 
 Flexible Business Loans 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Business 
 > Business Accounts 
 and Services > Currency Accounts 
 
Business Accounts and Services
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Currency Accounts 
 
 If you make and receive payments in a foreign 
 currency, a Clydesdale Bank Currency Account can help minimise exchange 
 risk and reduce borrowing costs where foreign currency interest 
 rates are lower than sterling. 
 
 There are two main 
 accounts: 
 
 
- Currency 
 Current Account; or a 
 
- Fixed 
 Term Deposit Account. 
 
 
Both accounts are available in a wide range of currencies. 
 
 Currency 
 Current Accounts
 The Currency Current Account has a cheque book facility available 
 in most currencies. The account can help you to manage foreign exchange 
 risk if you: 
 
 
- Are involved 
 in international trading; or 
 
- Have a regular 
 turnover in a foreign currency. 
 
 
The account can also be used to facilitate settlement of international 
 banking transactions and forward exchange contracts. 
 
 This account is 
 ideal for people who trade across the various European countries 
 that form the euro zone. The 
 account offers the potential to minimise borrowing costs even further 
 and maximise interest earning potential. 
 
 You can also transfer 
 funds between your Currency Accounts or to your sterling account 
 without any commission charge. This can be done through our International 
 Banking Centre (for Direct Dealing customers) or by contacting your 
 local branch. 
 
 Fixed 
 Term Deposit Account
 This account offers an alternative to investing funds in Sterling. 
 Funds are deposited in a specified currency for a fixed period at 
 a fixed rate of interest. This can be particularly helpful to meet 
 future cash flow requirements and will generally offer more attractive 
 rates of interest than the Currency Current Account. 
 
 
 All accounts are 
 maintained within our International Banking Centre. Arrangements 
 can be made for customer instructions and communications to be made 
 direct with our International Banking Centre, thereby streamlining 
 service delivery. 
 
 Terms and Conditions
 Minimum opening balances: 
 
 Currency Current 
 Accounts - US $1001 or other currency equivalent unless overdraft 
 facility approved. 
 
 Fixed Term Deposit 
 - GB10,000 or other currency equivalent for euro, US$, JPY, CA$ 
 and AU$. For other currencies please contact our International 
 Banking Centre on 0141 223 4444 or email 
 us. 
 
 Value Date
 Represents the date from when interest will be calculated and is 
 determined by the date from which the Bank has been able to invest 
 or borrow funds on the Inter-Bank Market. (Note this will be affected 
 by local and overseas holidays). 
 
 Interest
 This is calculated on an Actual/360 or Actual/365 day year basis 
 depending on market practice. Interest on Currency Current Accounts 
 is applied quarterly in arrears on the 30th of March, June, September 
 and December. 
 
 Interest rates 
 can fluctuate daily in line with market conditions. Details of these 
 rates are available from the International Banking Centre (a charge 
 of £15 is made if rates are required to be faxed.) 
 
 Interest earned 
 on a Currency Current Account is payable on a tiered basis details 
 of which are available on request. 
 
 Fixed Term Deposit 
 interest is payable on maturity. 
 
 A service charge 
 is applied quarterly where a cheque book facility is required and 
 also for cheques lodged to your account. The current charge and 
 other transaction charges are available on request. 
 
 Overdrafts
 Where borrowing for business is agreed, the lending margin added 
 to the current currency Base Rate will be advised by your Relationship 
 Manager. Unauthorised borrowing will be charged at a default rate 
 (above the relevant currency Base Rate), details of which are available 
 on request. 
 
 Statements
 Currency Current Account statements will be issued on a quarterly 
 basis or at other frequencies on request. 
 
 Confirmations
 A confirmation is produced for all Fixed Term Deposits. Reinvestment 
 instructions must be received by the International Banking Centre 
 two business days prior to maturity of the deposit. Arrangements 
 can be made to rollover/re-invest deposits on a standard basis. 
 
 
 Tax Deduction 
 Scheme for Interest
 If applicable UK Income Tax will be deducted from interest paid 
 at the current rates unless a valid IR Form R85 (Interest Without 
 Tax Deducted) or IR Form R105 (Declaration of Non Residence) has 
 been completed for the account in the case of personal customers. 
 
 
 Tailored Services
 Special arrangements other than those detailed above can be made 
 available to customers for a negotiated fee. 
 
 Opening an Account
 To open a Currency Current Account just contact your local branch 
 or Relationship Manager. You will need to complete a standard Account 
 Opening Application Form or in the case of a Limited Company, a 
 Letter of Request signed by the authorised signatories. The Bank's 
 Form 1655 will also need to be signed where a cheque book is required 
 or Fixed Term Deposit Account is being opened. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	 
	© Clydesdale Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here.
Clydesdale Bank PLC subscribes to the Business Banking Code. Business users click here for details. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
