
 
 
HSBC - Stakeholder Pensions
 
"100%">
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome 
 
 
 
 Tell 
 me about Stakeholder Pensions 
 
 
 
 My 
 Obligations 
 
 
 
 Frequently 
 asked questions 
 
 
 
 Which 
 service is available to me? 
 
 
 
 Stakeholder
 Pension
 self-service 
 
 
 
 Jargon 
 buster 
 
 
 
 Important 
 notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequently asked questions
 
Your employees will have lots of questions regarding 
 Stakeholder Pensions. Listed here are a few possible questions. 
 They may also help increase your understanding of Stakeholder Pensions. 
 
 
What is the Stakeholder 
 Pension plan? 
 
 
- It's a savings plan which will help you 
 to save for retirement in a tax-efficient way. The Government 
 has set minimum standards that companies must meet for a Stakeholder 
 Pension. These are to do with payment levels, costs, and terms 
 and conditions. The Stakeholder Pension plan complies with all 
 of these standards. 
 
 
Will a Stakeholder Pension be right for me?
 
 
- You will need to consider your own personal circumstances 
 before deciding whether a Stakeholder Pension would be right for 
 you. The Stakeholder Pension Decision Trees and Explanatory Notes 
 in the employee application pack will give you more information 
 on how Stakeholder Pensions work. They will also help you decide 
 if a Stakeholder Pension would be a good choice for you as part 
 of your pension and other financial arrangements when you retire. 
 
 
 
Can I contribute to a Stakeholder Pension if 
 I am a member of my employer's Occupational 
 Pension Scheme?
 
 
 
- Yes you can contribute up to £3,600 gross each 
 year to a Stakeholder Pension as long as you earn less than £30,000 
 a year and are not a controlling director. Different rules apply 
 if you are a member of an Occupational Pension Scheme - Please 
 ask us for a separate Key Features document.
 
 
How flexible is it?
 
 
 
- You, someone else on your behalf, or, if 
 you are working, your employer can make payments on a regular 
 basis or one-off payments at any time. 
 
- You, or anyone else paying into your pension 
 on your behalf, can change your regular payment amount at any 
 time as long as your new premium is not below the minimum we allow. 
 
 
- You can stop paying, or take a payment holiday 
 and restart later if your circumstances change. Be aware that 
 you'll reduce your future pension. 
 
 
What will I get back when I want to retire?
 
 
 
- The final value will depend on a number of things. 
 For example, how much is paid in, how long the payments are invested 
 for and how well our investments perform over the term of the 
 plan, and charges. 
 
- Your pension will depend on interest rates 
 at the time you convert the plan into your pension. To do this, 
 you'll need to buy another contract before you're 75. This is 
 called an annuity, and you can buy it from any pension company. 
 
 
 
What choices will I have when I retire?
 
 
 
- You can convert all of your plan value into a 
 pension, which will be taxable. Or you can take up to 25% of the 
 plan value as a tax-free cash sum in return for a smaller, taxable 
 pension. 
 
- You can start taking a pension at any time 
 between ages 50 and 75, including while you are still working. 
 You must start taking a pension no later than age 75. You can 
 take a pension in stages if you want to. You can start taking 
 a pension before age 50 only if you're in severe ill health, or 
 if the Inland Revenue has approved this for your job. 
 
 
How much can be paid into my plan each year?
 
 
- However you decide to make payments, the minimum 
 amount is £20. Your employer can also make payments to your plan. 
 
 
- The Inland Revenue sets a maximum amount 
 that you can pay into your plan in any tax year (a tax year runs 
 from 6 April in one year to 5 April the next year). Everyone can 
 pay at least £3,600 gross a year into a Stakeholder Pension plan 
 irrespective of earnings. 
 
- You may be able to pay more - the maximum you 
 can pay depends on your age and how much you earn. 
 
- If you have a pension plan with another Pension 
 Company or a previous employer, you can transfer its value into 
 this plan. There is no guarantee that doing so will increase your 
 total pension. These payments have different rules - please ask 
 us for a separate Key Features Document. 
 
- If you're contracted-out of the State Earnings-Related 
 Pension Scheme (SERPS), the Government will refund part of your 
 National Insurance payments. We invest these payments into your 
 plan. These payments have different rules - please ask us for 
 a separate Key Features Document. 
 
 
What about tax?
 
 
 
- You'll get tax relief on your payments. 
 At current tax rates, the value of the tax advantage means that 
 for every £100 invested in your plan, you'll pay only £78. If 
 you are a higher rate taxpayer, you can claim the extra relief 
 through your self-assessment tax return. 
 
- If you take a cash lump sum when you retire, it's 
 currently free of tax. Your pension will be treated as earned 
 income and will be taxable. 
 
- If you die before you retire, there is normally 
 no inheritance tax payable on the value of your plan.
 
 
Where are the payments invested?
 
 
 
- We will invest 100% of each payment. You 
 can choose to invest in one or more of eight funds. These are: 
 
 
 
- The Lifestyle Profile 
 
- The Money Market Fund 
 
- The Fixed Interest Fund 
 
- The FTSE All-Share Tracker Fund 
 
- The Household Names Fund 
 
- The European Index Tracker Fund 
	 
- Stakeholder Balanced Fund
	 
- Stakeholder International Fund
 
 
 
- If you do not choose which funds you want 
 to invest in we will invest your payments in the Lifestyle Profile 
 until you tell us otherwise. The Lifestyle Profile invests in 
 a combination of the Lifestyle FTSE All-Share Tracker Fund, the 
 Lifestyle Fixed Interest Fund and the Lifestyle Money Market Fund. 
 If you invest in the Lifestyle Profile, we will automatically 
 switch units within the fund during the last five years before 
 your scheduled retirement date. This is to help ensure that your 
 pension is not fully exposed to the effects if the stock market 
 crashes just before retirement. For more information on all these 
 funds and their risk profile, click 
 here. 
 
- You can switch your payments in and out 
 of various funds to change the mix of investments at any time 
 and without charge. 
 
- Each fund is made up of units. We use your payments 
 to buy units in the funds you choose. The price of one unit in 
 each fund depends on the value of the investments. We will work 
 out the value of your plan based on the total number of units 
 you have in each fund. If the unit prices rise or fall, so will 
 your plan value. 
 
 
What are the charges?
 The only charge we take is a maximum of 1% of 
 the value of the investment funds each year. (See 'Summary Information' 
 in the employee application pack for details.)
 
What happens to the plan if I die before I retire?
 
 
 
- If you die before you retire we will pay the plan 
 value. 
 
- We'll pay the amount due in a lump sum unless 
 part of the plan has to be used to buy a pension for your husband 
 or wife. This could happen if you've transferred your plan from 
 another pension plan, or if you have a separate plan because you've 
 contracted out of Serps, 
 the government scheme. 
 
- If you've arranged your plan under trust, 
 we'll pay the lump sum to the trustees. If it's not arranged under 
 trust, we'll decide whom to pay the lump sum to. We take into 
 account your circumstances when you died and anyone you've previously 
 stated you want the money to go to. 
 
- Optional life cover can be chosen to provide additional 
 life insurance if you die before you retire. This is issued as 
 a separate plan called Level Term Assurance. Please ask us for 
 a separate Key Features Document. 
 
 
What happens if I fall ill?
 
 
 
- Optional Stakeholder Contribution Protection 
 can be chosen to provide cover for regular payments into your 
 Stakeholder Pension plan. Stakeholder Contribution Protection 
 is a separate plan. (See 'Summary Information' in the employee 
 application pack for details.) You will receive a Key Features 
 Document and details of how to apply in the Welcome Pack we send 
 you after you set up your Stakeholder Pension plan.
 
 
Will my pension be affected if I get divorced?
 
 
 
- If you start divorce proceedings on or after 
 1 December 2000, the way your pension will be affected has changed. 
 Pensions are taken into account during court proceedings but now 
 the pension fund may be split as part of the financial settlement 
 order. For more details see our brochure 'Divorce - how it will 
 affect your pension'.
 
 
Can I transfer my plan?
 
 
 
- You can transfer your plan to another pension 
 company at any time before you start taking a pension. We make 
 no charge for this. 
 
- Your illustration gives examples of how much you 
 could transfer to another plan depending on when you transfer. 
 
 
 
Can I change my mind?
 
 
 
- You can change your mind within 30 days from when 
 you get your plan documents. If you decide, for any reason, that 
 you don't want the plan, we'll give you your money back. If you 
 make a single payment and the value has fallen, you'll get back 
 the plan value. It may be less than you paid in.
 
 
How will I know how my plan is doing?
 
 
 
- We'll send annual statements to show how your 
 plan is doing. 
 
- You can check the financial pages of newspapers 
 to see how your funds are performing. 
 
- You can also get an up to date valuation 
 online via our website at www.hsbc.co.uk. 
 Your Welcome Pack will give you details on how to do this. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
