
 
 
Sainsbury's Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 home insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 travel insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > the cover 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > any questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > making a claim 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > some definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > terms & conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 pet insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
> single trip | > annual multi-trip | > extended trip 
 
 
 
Here are the standard definitions for extended trip cover.
 
 
 Accident 
 A sudden, unexpected, specific, violent, external event 
 which occurs at a single identifiable time and place, but shall also 
 include exposure resulting from mishap to conveyance in which the 
 Insured Person is travelling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Baggage 
 Each of Your suitcases 
 (or containers of a similar nature) and their contents, articles You 
 are wearing or carrying which are owned by You, 
 including Your Valuables. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bodily Injury 
 
 
Bodily injury (other than where directly or indirectly caused by 
 illness or disease) which is caused solely and directly by accidental 
 means, which within twelve months from the date of such Accident 
 shall result in the death, total loss of sight or limbs or Permanent 
 Total Disablement of the Insured Person.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Child / Children 
 an unmarried and dependant person, aged 3 - 16 years, 
 living with an insured adult and named on the Policy Schedule. Please 
 note that Children are only insured 
 when travelling with an insured adult as part of a Family. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Claims Office 
 
 
Sainsbury's Bank Travel Insurance Claims Centre (Telephone 0845 
 300 3192&#134;).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Close Business Colleague 
 An associate in the same employment as You 
 in the United Kingdom, whose absence 
 from work or place of employment, as certified by a senior manager 
 or principal of the business, necessitates Your 
 return to the United Kingdom. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Couple 
 You and Your 
 spouse or cohabiting partner named on the Policy Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Emergency & Medical Assistance Centre 
 Sainsbury's Bank Travel Insurance Assistance Centre 
 (Telephone +44 (0)1273 765 305&#134;) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 The continent of Europe, 
 the Channel Islands, Isle of Man, Republic of Ireland, Iceland, the 
 Mediterranean islands, the Canary Islands, Madeira, Russia west of 
 the Urals and all those countries bordering the Mediterranean except 
 Libya, Egypt and Albania. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Extension of Insurance 
 If a public transport delay means You 
 are unable to return Home by the date 
 the Policy Schedule expires, then Your 
 cover is extended for up to one week. If Your 
 Trip extends beyond the maximum Trip 
 Duration indicated on Your Policy Schedule, 
 due to Your death, injury or illness 
 or that of anyone covered by this insurance, Your cover will be automatically 
 extended for the additional days necessary, provided the Emergency 
 & Medical Assistance Centre are contacted at the time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Family 
 You, Your spouse or co-habiting 
 partner, and any Child/Infant of You 
 or Your spouse or co-habiting partner, 
 named on the Policy Schedule. Infants 
 do not need to be named on the Policy Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Geographical Limit 
 The geographical limits specified on the Policy 
 Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hazardous Sports, Pursuits or Activities 
 Any sport, pursuit or activity where it is recognised 
 that there is an increased risk of serious injury or it can be reasonably 
 expected to aggravate any existing infirmity. The following activities 
 ARE COVERED under this policy as an incidental part of a normal holiday:Archery,* 
 Abseiling,* Beach Games, Canoeing (excluding white water), Cricket, 
 Curling, Cycling (excluding BMX/Mountain), Fell Walking, Fishing, 
 Golf, Gymnastics, Horse Riding (excluding Jumping), Jet Skiing, Parascending 
 (over water), Water Polo, Pony Trekking, Rambling, Sailing (within 
 territorial waters, but not as a member of the crew), Scuba Diving 
 (to 9 metres, but not within 24 hours prior to departure or unsupervised), 
 Surfing, Water Skiing, Wind Surfing, White Water Rafting.* (* = if 
 adequately supervised.)
 If You are taking part in any sport 
 or activity not listed above please contact Sainsbury's Bank Travel 
 Insurance Centre on 0845 300 3190 to enquire if You 
 can be covered. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Heavy manual work 
 Heavy Manual Work is defined 
 as any physical labour involving the use of tools or machinery, or 
 heavy lifting, or exposure to any risk that could give rise to bodily 
 injury or illness, or working at more than two metres above the ground. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 Your usual place of residence 
 within the UK. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Infant 
 A child aged 2 years and under (they are insured "free" 
 if they are travelling with an insured adult and are named on the 
 same Policy Schedule). 
 
 
 
 
 
 Insured Person/You/Your 
 Any person under the age of 80 named on the Policy 
 Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Insurers/We/Our/Us 
 St Andrew's Insurance plc except in the case of legal 
 expenses, personal liability underwritten by CNA Insurance Company 
 (Europe). 
 
 
 
 
 
 Material Fact 
 Anything liable to increase the likelihood that a claim 
 might occur or increase the amount of any potential claim. Your 
 failure to disclose any facts may mean Your 
 insurance will not protect You and may 
 be invalidated. Insurers may charge an increased premium, decline, 
 withdraw or restrict coverage, where facts disclosed are deemed to 
 be unacceptable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pair or Set 
 Two or more items of Baggage 
 (including Valuables) which are complementary 
 or used or worn together. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Period of Insurance 
 means the period shown on the Policy Schedule. Section 
 1 (Cancellation) is effective from the date of booking any travel 
 or accommodation for the Trip where 
 the event giving rise to the cancellation occurs during the period 
 of insurance. Cancellation cover terminates upon the commencement 
 of Your Trip . All other Sections are 
 effective from the time the Insured Person 
 leaves his/her Home in the United 
 Kingdom (whichever is left last) and shall continue until the 
 Insured Person returns to a) their Home 
 or b) a hospital or nursing home in the United 
 Kingdom following their repatriation (whichever is reached 
 first) but both events must occur during the Trip 
 Duration (except where there is an Extension 
 of Insurance). 
 
 
 
 
 
 Permanent Total Disablement 
 A condition which is of a permanent, severe and irreversible 
 nature which is shown by medical evidence to be likely to continue 
 for the remainder of Your life and which 
 in Our reasonable opinion prevents You 
 from engaging in any work or occupation for remuneration or profit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal Money 
 Bank and currency notes, cash, cheques, postal and money 
 orders, current postage stamps, coupons or vouchers which have a monetary 
 value. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Policy Excess 
 
 
The first amount of each and every claim, for each separate incident, 
 for each Insured Person, which is 
 not covered under certain sections of the policy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pre-Existing Medical Condition 
 Any condition for which You 
 have consulted a medical practitioner, received medical treatment, 
 have been prescribed medications, have received a prognosis or are 
 on a waiting list for treatment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Transport 
 Train, bus, coach, ferry service or airline flight operating 
 to a published timetable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Redundancy 
 Being made unemployed under the Employment 
 Protection Act (where You/or Your 
 travelling companion or, co-habiting partner or spouse have been continuously 
 employed on a permanent basis by the same employer and are not on 
 a short-term fixed contract) and You, Your 
 travelling companion, co-habiting partner or spouse have been given 
 a Notice of Redundancy and are receiving payment under the current 
 redundancy payments legislation and at the time of booking the Trip 
 You, Your travelling companion, co-habiting partner or spouse, 
 had no reason to believe that You or 
 Your travelling companion, co-habiting 
 partner or spouse would be made redundant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Relative 
 Husband, wife, son, daughter, parent, brother, sister, 
 grandparent, grandchild, parent-in-law, fiance(e) or co-habiting partner. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ski Equipment 
 Skis (including bindings), snowboards, boots and ski 
 poles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Transport Charges 
 The value of the scheduled or charter airline tickets, 
 scheduled coach ticket, international train ticket or ferry ticket. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trip 
 The period of time (as defined under Trip 
 Duration) spent away from Your Home 
 on business or leisure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trip Duration 
 means the Trip duration 
 shown on the Policy Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 United Kingdom/UK 
 England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Isle of 
 Man and Channel Islands. The Isle of Man and Channel Islands are regarded 
 as UK for Trips 
 departing from and returning thereto, but as EUROPE 
 when they are the Trip destination. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Valuables 
 Cameras, photographic equipment, camcorders, DVD players, 
 video, telephone and tele-communications equipment, radios, cassette 
 players, CD players, audio equipment, computers, computer games machine, 
 MP3 players, electronic personal organisers, binoculars, telescopes, 
 mobile telephones, antiques, jewellery, watches, furs, precious or 
 semi-precious stones, articles made of or containing gold, silver 
 or other precious metals, films, tapes, cassettes, cartridges, discs 
 or compact discs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Winter Sports (if appropriate premium 
 paid) 
 
 
Insurance (up to a maximum of 24 days cover in total during the 
 Period of Insurance if You 
 have Annual Insurance Cover) whilst You 
 are skiing, snowboarding, or participating in any snow or ice activities 
 including off-piste skiing (provided You 
 are accompanied by a qualified ski instructor who holds the appropriate 
 Liability Insurance and that there are no avalanche warnings current). 
 Insurance is not provided for ski-racing, 
 ski-jumping, ski-flying, ski-acrobatics and stunting, heli-skiing, 
 ice hockey or the use of skeletons or bobsleighs.
 
Note: There is no cover under any Section of the policy for Winter 
 Sports activities or Ski Equipment 
 unless the appropriate premium has been paid and is shown on the 
 Policy Schedule.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 World-wide Excluding USA 
 and Canada trips 
 Any Trip to any destination 
 in the world excluding USA and Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 World-wide Including USA 
 and Canada trips 
 Any Trip to any destination 
 in the world including USA and Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 Additional information for You 
 
 
 
 
 
 Insurance Premium
 Tax (IPT) 
 this is a Government tax which must be paid by You 
 at the current rate applicable to this category of insurance. Only 
 residents of the Isle of Man and Channel Islands are exempt from paying. 
 
 
 
Sainsbury's Bank is a registered Trademark of Sainsbury's 
 Bank plc. 
 
&#134; Telephone calls may be recorded for 
 security purposes and monitored under our quality control procedures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
