
Hampshire Trust - About Hampshire Trust
 
 
 
 
What
 information do we collect? How
 do we use it?
 
 When
 you register to receive information on any of our products and services we
 ask for your name, e-mail address, telephone number, address and postcode.
 
 
 
We
 may also use the information we collect to occasionally notify you about
 important functionality changes to the website and other products and
 services offered by us which we think will be of interest to you. 
 By submitting your information you consent to this use. 
 If you would rather not receive this material please e-mail us at enquiries@hampshire-trust.co.uk or
 telephone 01329 234294.
 
 
 
How
 do we protect your information?
 
 Your
 data is stored in our UK-based database and is protected by Firewall
 technology.
 
 
 
"Cookies”
 We do not use cookies on this site.
 
Do
 we disclose information to third parties?
 
 We will not sell, trade or rent your personal
 information to others without first obtaining your consent. We may, however, provide aggregate statistics about our site
 usage and traffic patterns and related site information to third parties but
 these statistics will include no personally identifying information.
 
In summary
 We
 are committed to protecting your privacy. 
 We use the information we collect to maintain our database.
 
 
 
This
 site contains links to other websites which we believe can offer you useful
 information and services. However
 we are not responsible for the privacy practices, nor do we control the
 content of the websites we link to, and therefore we do not accept
 responsibility for the security, propriety or content of such sites.
 
 
 
Your consent
 By
 using our website you consent to the collection and use of this information
 by Hampshire Trust plc. If we
 decide to change our privacy policy we will post those changes on this page
 so that you are always aware of what information we collect, how we use it,
 and under what circumstances we disclose it.
 
 
 
Because
 the Internet infrastructure is global and it is not possible to predict the
 routes that information sent over the Internet will take, the information
 you provide may be transferred temporarily via a route which takes it
 outside the European economic area as it passes between you and us. 
 By submitting your information you consent to this transfer.
 
 
 
You
 can opt out of receiving communications from us. You can also ask us to remove, change or amend your details
 by:-
 
 
 
 
- 
 
email to:
 enquiries@hampshire-trust.co.uk
 
 
 
- 
 
telephoning: 01329
 234294
 
 
 
 
If
 you have any questions about this privacy policy or the practices of this
 site, please feel free to contact us in either of the ways set out above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 Page 
 Deposits
 and Savings 
 Commercial
 Loans 
 Factoring 
 Location 
 Senior
 Management 
 
 
 
Finance available for Business
Users | Privacy Policy 
Hampshire Trust Plc,
Fareham House,
69 High Street,
Fareham,
Hampshire,
PO16
7BB.
Telephone: (01329) 234294
Facsimile: (01329) 285910
email: enquiries@hampshire-trust.co.uk
 
 
 
 
 
 Website:
 Designed and managed by
 Nick Hillman of ICE Solutions Ltd.
 nhillman@ice-group.com 
 
 
 
