
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 Who are we? 
 
 
 
 Reasons to invest 
 offshore 
 
 
 
 Reasons to invest 
 with IPB Europe 
 
 
 
 A comprehensive 
 range of products and services to meet your 
 needs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Who are 
 we?
 
Your ideal banking and investment partner, Citibank 
 International Personal Banking Europe operates 
 out of 5 renowned and well established offshore 
 locations: Jersey, Switzerland (Geneva, Zurich 
 & Lugano), London, Luxembourg and Monaco. 
 We offer investors, with US$100,000 or more, flexibility, 
 security and a wide range of global products and 
 services. Our experienced team of Relationship 
 Managers are professionals at knowing the markets 
 and trained to understand you and your financial 
 needs.
 
return to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reasons 
 to invest offshore
 
By opening an account with IPB Europe, you may 
 take advantage of financial services outside your 
 country of residence. There are a number of reasons 
 why you may benefit from placing some of your 
 assets overseas:
 
 
 
 Tax efficiency 
 
 
 
 Global investment opportunities 
 
 
 
 Diversification of investment 
 risk 
 
 
 
 Confidentiality 
 
 
 
return to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reasons 
 to invest with IPB Europe
 
 
 
 We have years of international 
 banking experience so your money will be safe 
 and secure with us 
 
 
 
 You will gain access to global 
 investments expertise 
 
 
 
 Your Relationship Manager, who 
 typically speaks your language, will work 
 with you to choose the investments which will 
 best meet your needs through every stage of 
 your life, be it optimising savings returns, 
 children's education plans or retirement strategies 
 
 
 
 We offer a diverse range of 
 products and services; including the flexibility 
 of multi-currency accounts in 12 major currencies 
 
 
 
 We provide worldwide access 
 to your accounts and investments, ensuring 
 you have full flexibility and control over 
 your finances. You can access your account 
 through our network of over 340,000 ATMs worldwide, 
 as well as via fax, mail and telephone. With 
 an International Personal Banking Citicard, 
 you can withdraw up to US$4,000 (or local 
 currency equivalent)* per day, check your 
 banking and investment account balances at 
 your convenience and print out a comprehensive 
 portfolio summary. You can also move money 
 from one account to another across Europe 
 free of transaction fees by using our InterCiti 
 service 
 
 
 
 However you choose to invest, 
 you'll enjoy modest subscription requirements 
 and attractive fees 
 
 
 
return to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
A comprehensive 
 range of products and services to meet your needs
 
We offer a broad range of international products 
 and services, from traditional bank accounts to 
 worldwide execution only brokerage and margin 
 lending schemes. Our mutual funds advisory service 
 gives you access to over 150 regional and global 
 funds, managed by some of the world's leading 
 investment houses (including Citigroup Asset Management)**. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash accounts in 12 currencies 
 
 
 
 Time Deposits in 7 currencies 
 
 
 
 Swiss Fiduciary Deposits in 
 4 currencies 
 
 
 
 Mutual Funds from across the 
 globe 
 
 
 
 Capital Protected Investments 
 
 
 
 International execution only 
 brokerage 
 
 
 
 Equities and bonds sales/purchases 
 on all major world markets 
 
 
 
 Credit facilities*** 
 
 
 
 Lending against investments 
 and deposits 
 
 
 
return to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Subject to local conditions. 
 **This service is only available for proprietary 
 funds at our London & Jersey centres.
 *** Important Credit Information - All credit 
 will be subject to the legislation enforceable 
 in the jurisdiction in which they have been granted. 
 Our credit facilities are only available to those 
 individuals who are of the legal age of majority. 
 Written quotations are available on request. Security 
 will be required. All credit applications are 
 subject to status and conditions and repayable 
 on demand. Please note that interest rates are 
 variable. 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	RELATED LINKS 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Click here for the up to the minute news and market information. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Citibank provides all the background you need for making informed investments. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 Examine the present then prepare for the future. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Make the most of your investment decisions. Click here for access to a wealth of up to the minute market information. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Why not consult our Standard & Poor's tutorials for an independent view of the investments marketplace. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
