
Clydesdale Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 	 
 BACS - Direct Credit 
 
	 
 	 
 BACS - Direct Debit 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Business 
 > PC Banking > BACS - Direct Credit 
 
PC Banking
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BACS - Direct Credit 
 
 
 Whether you are a small business or large organisation you can benefit 
 from using the Direct Credit System as it enables you to transfer 
 funds electronically directly into a specified bank or building society 
 account. 
 
 A company making 
 as few as 50 cheque payments a week for any of the following reasons 
 may realise substantial annual savings:- 
 
Paying Salaries 
 and wages to employees and reimbursing expenses
 This has now become the standard "best practice" in payroll administration 
 as :- 
 
 
- Some 94% of the 
 population in Britain have a personal account with a Bank or Building 
 Society. (Source : BACS " Direct Credit for Paying Employees" 
 Jan 98) 
 
 
 
- Currently over 
 70% of all salary and wage payments are made directly to personal 
 accounts. (Source : BACS " Direct Credit for Paying Employees" 
 Jan 98) 
 
 
 
- It is estimated 
 that over 150,000 organisations of all sizes pay their employees 
 by Direct Credit resulting in 5 million wages being processed 
 every week and over 12 million salaries every month. (Source : 
 BACS " Direct Credit for Paying Employees" Jan 98) 
 
 
Paying essential 
 costs involved in running your business
 
 
- Direct Credit 
 is an efficient method for paying essential bills such as rates, 
 rent, electricity etc. 
 
 
Paying regular suppliers
 
 
- A recent study 
 found that 96% of companies would be willing to receive payments 
 by Direct Credit with many making this their preferred payment 
 method. (Source : BACS " Direct Credit An Introduction" Jan 98) 
 
 
Preferred by Business
 The benefits of using Direct Credit in particular, for paying salaries 
 and wages are summarised as follows:- 
 
 
- Savings your 
 Business time and money
 Eliminates the cost of cheque stationery and where relevant, the 
 overheads of automated cheque production. Indeed, independent 
 research has shown that paying employees by cash or cheque can 
 be up to six times more expensive than paying by Direct 
 Credit. (Source : BACS "Direct Credit for Paying Employees" Jan 
 98)
 
- Savings in 
 administration time
 Removes time-consuming laborious administration associated with 
 preparing cheques, collating payment with payslips and removes 
 the employee downtime involved in their distribution and collection.
 
- Improved Cash 
 Flow Management
 The certainty of payment date facilitates optimum cash flow management 
 and removes the need to fund the payroll before the employee's 
 accounts are credited. Each payment file generates just a single 
 debit to the employer's account on a specified date.
 
- Greater Security
 Eliminates the security risks and costs involved in delivering 
 and holding cash on the premises which in turn may also reduce 
 insurance costs.
 
- Greater Reliability
 There is no risk of encoding faults and clearing delays to which 
 paper credits are vulnerable.
 
 
The facility for 
 multiple payments by bank giro credit will be withdrawn by the Banking 
 Industry at the end of 1999. 
 
Preferred by 
 Employees
 
 
 
- Immediate 
 Access to Pay Cheque
 Unlike cheques, Direct Credit gives the employee cleared funds 
 guaranteed to be available on pay day. Removes the risk of payment 
 being delayed in the post.
 
- Greater Security
 Eliminates the security risks that the employee may face from 
 robbery or the loss of wage packets. 
 
- Greater Reliability
 Money is automatically credited to their account on known dates 
 even when they are sick, on holiday or on shift work outside normal 
 hours.
 
- Improved Cash 
 Management
 Employees may choose to pay essential bills by Direct Debit and 
 may have the opportunity to receive discounts for early payment. 
 Once all bills are paid they are able to budget on the remaining 
 funds available.
 
 
Payment Process 
 
 
 
 
- Information 
 Required 
 
 In order to 
 make payments by Direct Credits you will need the following 
 details of Employees Bank/Building Society account to be credited 
 :- 
 
 1) Sort code 
 
 2) Account Number 
 
- Process is 
 completed in 3 days 
 
 Day 1 : INPUT 
 in accordance with the stipulated timetable
 Day 2 : PROCESS accepted data
 Day 3 : ENTRY COMPLETED with Beneficiary being credited and 
 Originator debited simultaneously 
 
 
- You remain 
 in Control
	 
You have the option of submitting Direct Credit 
 payment instructions up to 30 days prior to payment date. 
 
 
 You have the 
 capability of altering the payment information after the instructions 
 have been submitted provided your Bank is notified prior to 
 a specified cut-off time. 
 
Accessing the Direct Credit System
 There is a choice of methods to access the system either :- 
	
1) Indirect 
 Access
You may choose to access the system through the TeleBank® 
 Business BACS module (information can be found from our home 
 page). This is often more suitable for smaller businesses or 
 those collecting a limited number of payments.
 
2) Direct 
 Access
The system can be accessed directly from your office by BACSTEL, 
 the telecommunications link. Originators collecting large volumes 
 of Direct Credits find this method faster and more cost effective 
 than indirect access.
 
Requirements
 In order to access the system through BACSTEL you will require 
 a PC, appropriate modem and required software.
 
Availability
 Software can be obtained from your Bank or a proprietary software 
 supplier. Solutions are also available for mid-range and mainframe 
 computer systems.
 
Security
 All transmissions are secured using passwords unique to each 
 submission. Confirmation of receipt is sent back down the telephone 
 line to notify successful transmission.
 
 If you require 
 any further information please 
 
 
 
- email 
 us or 
 
- telephone 
 + 44 141 223 4552/4553 or 
 
- call into 
 your local Clydesdale branch. 
 
 
We look forward 
 to hearing from you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	 
	© Clydesdale Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here.
Clydesdale Bank PLC subscribes to the Business Banking Code. Business users click here for details. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
