
Standard Life Bank - FAQ
About Us
Mortgages
Personal Savings
Business Savings
Insurance
Online Banking
Contact Us
Rates
Brochure Library
Added Extras
Site Map
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HomeMortgagesLong Term Capped RateFAQ 
At Standard Life Bank, we know that you don't want to spend the next 25 years worrying about your mortgage. After all, life's too short and that's why the Futureperfect Mortgage was devised.
It's so simple, it's perfect. And it's extremely competitive and designed to offer you a fair deal. Here are some frequently asked questions about Futureperfect.
- How easy is it to arrange a Futureperfect Mortgage?
- Who can apply?
- Are there any charges with my Futureperfect Mortgage? 
- How can I use my mortgage?
- How much can I borrow?
- Can you tell me more about the capped interest rate?
- What happens if interest rates change?
- What about security?
- What cover and insurance do I need?
- Will my mortgage be completely repaid at the end of the 25 year term?
- What happens if I move home in the future?
 
How easy is it to arrange a Futureperfect Mortgage?
The application process starts with a quick phone call. You'll be asked some straightforward questions about your borrowing requirements, your earnings and outgoings and the property (which could be your current home if you're remortgaging). We'll then tell you how much we'd be willing to lend in principle and how much your monthly payments would be. Remember that unlike many mortgage providers who offer you a multiple of your income, we calculate your loan according to how much you can afford to pay back every month which often means that we will lend you more.
Once we have your details, we'll send out completed forms for you to check, sign and 
return to us along with a number of documents which are necessary to process your application. Alternatively, you can speak to your financial adviser who can deal with us on your behalf.
Back to top    
 
Who can apply?
UK residents between the ages of 18 and 42 can apply. Joint applicants, first time borrowers, movers, remortgagers, the employed and the self employed.
Back to top    
 
Are there any charges with my Futureperfect Mortgage? 
There are no hidden charges and you will benefit from: 
- No Mortgage Indemnity Guarantee premium 
- Standard valuation fee refunded on completion 
- Contribution of up to £200 towards legal fees on completion 
Please refer to our tariff of charges for further information. 
Back to top    
 
How can I use my mortgage?
The Futureperfect Mortgage can be used for a new house purchase or for remortgaging your existing property.
Back to top    
 
How much can I borrow?
Minimum £25,001. 
Max £750,000 for up to 75% of the value of the property to be mortgaged. 
Max £500,000 for up to 80% of the value of the property to be mortgaged. 
Max £400,000 for up to 90% of the value of the property to be mortgaged. 
Max £250,000 for 90.01 - 95% of the value of the property to be mortgaged. 
All loans are based on affordability. 
Back to top    
 
Can you tell me more about the capped interest rate?
The Futureperfect rate is set at the outset of the 25 year period covered by your mortgage. It won't go higher at any time but it can go lower, if interest rates change.
Back to top    
 
What happens if interest rates change?
If the Futureperfect variable rate drops below the Futureperfect capped rate, repayments will be calculated at the Futureperfect variable rate. This rate equals the average of the standard variable rates of four selected lenders, Halifax plc, Abbey National, C&G and Standard Life Bank. Where a selected lender has more than one standard variable rate, Standard Life will use its discretion to choose which rate applies in the calculation. The average standard variable rate of the four selected lenders is reviewed on the 15th of every month and the Futureperfect variable rate will be adjusted if necessary by the 15th of the following month.
Back to top    
 
What about security?
In this case, Standard Life Bank is acting as an agent of its parent company, Standard Life. In terms of security, Standard Life will take first charge over the mortgaged property which must be located in the UK. All properties must be surveyed by arrangement with Standard Life Bank approved valuers. At a minimum, we require to see a standard valuation report. 
Back to top    
 
What cover and insurance do I need?
Buildings insurance must be in place before any mortgage funds are released and must remain in force throughout the term of the mortgage. It will be up to you to choose the insurance company and show a copy of the policy document to the solicitors. Buildings insurance (and optional home contents insurance) can be arranged through your financial adviser or Standard Life Bank. Call 0845 600 1601 for buildings and 0845 601 2357 for MPPI. We strongly recommend that you have adequate life assurance cover linked to your mortgage. The Standard Life Assurance Company can provide this cover. Call 0800 333 377. Any advice given, or recommendation made, will relate only to the products of Standard Life group. Alternatively, please speak to your financial adviser. Similarly, we strongly recommend Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance and this can be arranged through your financial adviser or Standard Life Bank if required.
Back to top    
 
Will my mortgage be completely repaid at the end of the 25 year term?
Yes. As long as you've kept up with your repayments, your mortgage will be clear by the end of the 25 year term.
Back to top    
 
What happens if I move home in the future?
Your Futureperfect Mortgage can stay with you if you decide to move to another home. If you need more funds to buy your new home, we'll be happy to consider you for a renewed Futureperfect loan following credit reassessment. Your new loan will be available on a capital and interest basis and the additional funds you require can be taken on the futureperfect capped rate (if available) or the futureperfect variable rate.
Back to top    
 
Important Legal Information
The information, services and products on this web site are intended for use by residents of the United Kingdom only. Please click on the following link for full details of Standard Life Bank legal information
©2001 Standard Life Bank Limited
 
 
 
 
 
