
Citibank UK - About Us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms & Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
Use of the Service
 
 The travel money service is available 
 to individuals resident in and accessing the service 
 from the United Kingdom aged 18 years or over for deliveries 
 of foreign currency banknotes and travellers cheques 
 ("Travel Money") to their home address in 
 mainland United Kingdom only ("the Service").
 
Agreement
 
By accessing, using or browsing our travel 
 money web site ("the Site") or ordering Travel 
 Money from us by any means, you confirm that you are 
 over 18 years old and have read and understood these 
 terms of use (and those of the Issuer of travellers 
 cheques if you order the same) and agree to be bound 
 by them and to comply with all applicable laws, rules 
 and regulations. 
 You also confirm that you have read and understood our 
 Privacy Policy and consent to the uses and disclosures 
 of information as described. 
 
Orders
 
A maximum value of £2,500 per parcel 
 applies. If you order more than this amount it will 
 be spread over multiple parcels and this will be reflected 
 in the delivery fee. We reserve the right to amend the 
 maximum parcel value at any time at our discretion without 
 notice and without liability to you. Each order will 
 be subject to rounding. ie We are unable to supply foreign 
 coins or fractions of a banknote.
 
You must provide the requested information 
 for us to process your order. We reserve the right to 
 request further information from you at any time. We 
 will use various procedures to authenticate each transaction 
 and may, at any time, decline to process your order 
 for any reason. We may in our sole discretion elect 
 to process part orders. 
 
The exchange rates we quote are subject 
 to change. We will use the exchange rate (as set by 
 us) that applies at the time we receive your order. 
 We will acknowledge receipt of your order. Such acknowledgement 
 shall not constitute our acceptance of your order. 
 
To place your order, call the number 
 quoted on the Site or on our promotional material, or 
 use the Site's order facility. Calls are charged at 
 the appropriate rate (i.e. local rate for 0845 numbers 
 and national rate for 0870 numbers) and orders will 
 not be accepted on any other number. Calls may be monitored 
 and/or recorded for security purposes and to ensure 
 a consistent level of service. 
 
The hours of business for our call centres 
 (excluding Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Years Day) 
 are 8am - 10pm Monday to Friday, and 10am - 8pm Saturday, 
 Sunday and other Bank Holidays. 
 
Please order your Travel Money at least 
 3 working days before you need it. We will not be liable 
 for any losses or expenses arising from late or non-delivery. 
 
 
Delivery
 
We will endeavour to despatch the Travel 
 Money (subject to availability) for orders we receive 
 before 2.00 p.m. on a working day, on the same day, 
 and at other times the next working day.
 The Travel Money will be delivered to your home address 
 (specified in your order). Saturday deliveries are not 
 guaranteed. There are no deliveries on Sundays or public 
 holidays. We reserve the right to use any delivery service 
 at our option without notice and without liability to 
 you. 
 You will need to sign a delivery receipt for the Travel 
 Money. If you are not at home to receive the Travel 
 Money, you will need to collect it from your local mail 
 sorting office as notified by the delivery person. You 
 will need to show proof of identity. 
 
Fees
 
A non-refundable delivery charge applies 
 to each order. We will notify you of the cost of delivery 
 when you make your order. 
 
Orders made by credit card and some debit 
 cards may be subject to a handling fee charged by your 
 card provider. We have no control over, and are not 
 liable for, such charges. 
 
Payment
 
You can pay for orders with any of your 
 cards issued in the United Kingdom that bear the Duet, 
 MasterCard, Switch, Visa or Visa Delta logo only and 
 which have sufficient funds available to cover your 
 order (and any fees) in total. 
 
Changes
 
We may change or withdraw the terms of 
 use, the Site, the Service and/or the Buy Back Offer 
 at any time without notice and without liability to 
 you. We reserve the right to amend the exchange rates 
 and delivery charges at any time at our discretion. 
 
 
If we revise the terms of use, we will 
 post the revised version on the Site, which shall be 
 effective immediately. Please read the current terms 
 of use from time to time even if you have previously 
 used the Service. By using the Site, Service or the 
 Buy Back Offer after we have changed the terms of use, 
 you will be deemed to have accepted the changes. 
 
Data Privacy
 
We will utilise the data that you supply 
 to us for the purposes set out in our Privacy Policy. 
 We will comply with all applicable data protection legislation 
 in respect of it. You agree that we may use your personal 
 data in the ways advised in our Privacy Policy, detailed 
 below. 
 
Buy Back Offer
 
The Buy Back Offer is distinct from the 
 Service and is provided by myTravel Financial Services 
 Leisure Travel Limited ("myTravel Financial Services") 
 and/or selected companies in the Airtours plc group 
 of companies, which we may notify you of from time to 
 time ("Selected Outlets"). 
 
You may change back your unused foreign 
 currency banknotes and/or travellers cheques to pounds 
 sterling at any retail shop of myTravel Financial Services 
 or the Selected Outlets based in the United Kingdom 
 commission free. 
 
myTravel Financial Services and the Selected 
 Outlets may use various procedures to authenticate each 
 transaction and may, at any time, decline to buy back 
 your Travel Money for any reason. If requested, you 
 will need to provide the original receipt for the Travel 
 Money. 
 
You acknowledge that laws or regulations 
 may prohibit the purchase of certain currencies from 
 you. The Buy Back Offer will, therefore, not apply to 
 those currencies. 
 
The exchange will be made at the exchange 
 rate displayed in, or notified by, the respective shop 
 of myTravel Financial Services or the Selected Outlet 
 on that day, which they shall determine in their sole 
 discretion. 
 
The Buy Back Offer may be withdrawn at 
 any time, without notice and without liability to you. 
 
 
Exclusions of Liability
 
The following exclusions and limitations 
 apply to the fullest extent permitted by law: 
 
a) The Site, the Service and the Buy 
 Back Offer are provided "as is" without express 
 or implied warranty of any kind. 
 
b) We make no representations about the 
 suitability, reliability, availability, timeliness and 
 accuracy of the Site, Service or the Buy Back Offer 
 for any purpose. 
 
c) We do not warrant that the Site, Service 
 or the Buy Back Offer will be uninterrupted or error-free. 
 
 
d) We shall not be liable for any loss, 
 damage or expense (including without limitation indirect, 
 incidental, special or consequential damages) suffered 
 or incurred from your use of the Site, Service or the 
 Buy Back Offer howsoever arising. 
 
e) We shall have no liability to you 
 in respect of the acts, omissions or negligence of any 
 third party (including, without limitation, late or 
 non-delivery).
 
f) Any links to other web sites provided 
 by the Site have been included for convenience only. 
 The inclusion of any link does not imply any endorsement 
 by us of, or control over, the linked web site. We shall 
 not be liable in respect of any matter arising out of 
 your use of such linked sites. 
 
Proprietary Rights
 
The content of the Site is protected 
 by copyrights, trade marks, service marks, patents or 
 other proprietary rights and laws. You must not reproduce 
 any part of the Site without our prior written consent. 
 
 
Termination
 
We may terminate your access to any part 
 or all of the Site, and/or your use of the Service or 
 the Buy Back Offer and any related services for any 
 reason, at any time, without cause, without notice, 
 and with immediate effect. 
 
Law and Jurisdiction
 
The Service shall be performed in the 
 United Kingdom. English law shall govern our relationship 
 with you. You and we each submit to the exclusive jurisdiction 
 of the English Courts in relation to any disputes arising 
 under or in connection with the Service and/or this 
 agreement. 
 
General
 
If any part of these terms of use are 
 determined to be invalid or unenforceable pursuant to 
 applicable law then such part will be treated as removed 
 from this agreement and the remainder of these terms 
 of use shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
Contacting Us
 
The Service is provided by us (myTravel 
 Financial Services Limited). Registered office: Parkway 
 One, Parkway Business Centre, 300 Princess Road, Manchester 
 M14 7QU. 
 The Buy Back Offer is provided by myTravel Financial 
 Services Leisure Travel Limited and the Selected Outlets, 
 registered offices at Parkway One, Parkway Business 
 Centre, 300 Princess Road, Manchester M14 7QU.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Privacy Policy: The 1998 Data Protection 
 Act and You
 
The Privacy Policy contains important 
 information about your travel money order and how we 
 (myTravel Financial Services Limited) may use information 
 about you. 
 
We are a member of the Airtours group 
 of companies. A complete list of group companies who 
 process data is available on request. Information about 
 you and/or your order for foreign currency and/or travellers 
 cheques ("Travel Money"), will be held on 
 the Group's computers (and in other ways) to enable 
 us and other members of the Group: 
 
a) to process your order and despatch 
 Travel Money. If your travellers cheques are lost or 
 stolen, we may also need to process and/or release information 
 about you and/or your order to the person who issued 
 your travellers cheques if they contacts us about your 
 claim;
 
b) to conduct statistical analysis or 
 market research;
 
c) to prevent or detect fraud and to 
 collect monies due to us. Your information will be used 
 by us or by someone on our behalf, for this purpose;
 
d) to contact you via e-mail, letter 
 or phone about products and services (of the Group or 
 selected suppliers), which may be of interest to you, 
 and to pass information about you to the person who 
 promoted us or referred you to us, who may also contact 
 you about its products and services which may be of 
 interest to you.
 
We may monitor and/or record phone calls 
 between you and the Group for security purposes and 
 to ensure a consistent level of service.
 
© 2002 myTravel Financial 
 Services Limited. All rights reserved.
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
