
Abbey National: Pensions : Free Severe Disability Cover
	
	
 	
	
	
 	 
 	 	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 	
 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	 	 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
	Homepage 
	
	Interest Rates 
	
	How to Contact Us 
	
	Apply Now 
	
	The Abbey National Group 
	
 
	
	
 	 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	
	 
	Mortgages 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Savings 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Personal Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Credit Card 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Loans 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Investments 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Pensions 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	Stakeholder Pension
	
	Decision tree
	
	Free Severe Disability Cover
	
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Protecting & Insuring 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Accounts For Young People 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Abbey National business 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Abbey National at work 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of a valid claim arising between starting a Stakeholder Pension Plan and 31
March 2002 (the free cover period) the policy provides that contributions will be credited
to their Stakeholder Pension Plan as if they were still being made.
These pages describe Severe Disability Cover for which 'eligible customers' qualify.
'Eligible Customers' are those who:
- Take out an Abbey National Stakeholder Pension Plan, and
- Indicate when applying they require the free cover
- Answer the underwriting questions, which form part of the application, to our
satisfaction, and
- Are aged between 18 and 58 (attained).
Eligible customers will benefit from free Severe Disability Cover until 31 March 2002.
They will then have the option to continue the cover at a cost which will be quoted nearer
the time. Full details of the terms and conditions applying after the end of the free
cover period will be provided by 31 March 2002.
The free cover will apply to any incapacity arising during the free offer period, even if Abbey National is notified of any valid claim after 31 March 2002.
More information is given on the claims procedure further on.
For a claim arising during the free cover period, the benefit will be the initial
contribution made to the individual's Abbey National Stakeholder Pension Plan.
Free Severe Disability Cover is available in respect of contributions made by an
individual or on an individual's behalf by someone else such as a spouse or employer.
The 'initial contribution' is the first contribution made to that Plan. So, if the first
monthly contribution is £50 (net amount if paid by an individual) then this will
also be the benefit paid on claim each month. If the first contribution is a yearly
contribution of, say, £1,200 then the benefit on claim will be the equivalent
monthly rate, i.e. £100 per month (£1,200 divided by 12 months). Similar rules
apply for other frequencies. When the benefit is paid it will always be increased by basic
rate income tax.
The maximum benefit payable currently amounts to £300 per month gross of tax.
After a claim has started, the benefit will increase at the rate of 2% above the Retail
Prices Index. This is subject to a maximum increase in any year of 7.5%, and subject to
the benefit amount not exceeding our current maximum of £300 per month gross of tax.
When can a claim be made?
A claim can be made if either:
- The individual is incapacitated through illness (other than a mental illness of any kind)
or accident, to the extent of being unable to perform any two of the six Work Tasks listed
further on,or
- The individual is incapacitated through mental illness and there is evidence of a
psychotic or organic illness which has proven to be uncontrollable by treatment.
The Work Tasks are:
- Walking &#150; the ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface,
using a stick or other aid if necessary, without stopping or severe discomfort.
- Lifting &#150; the ability to pick up an object weighing 1kg from
table height and carry it for 5 metres.
- Using a pen, pencil or keyboard &#150; the ability to use a pen,
pencil or keyboard with either hand using any aid if necessary.
- Hearing &#150; the ability to hear well enough to understand
someone speaking a common language in a normal voice in a quiet room with a hearing aid,
if necessary.
- Speech &#150; the ability to be understood in a common language in
a quiet room.
- Vision &#150; the ability to see well enough to read 16 point print
using spectacles or other aid, if necessary.The Period of Incapacity will continue for as long as the individual is, in the opinion of
an Appropriate Medical Specialist, unable to perform any two of the six Work Tasks above
or remains incapacitated through mental illness.
The benefit starts 6 months after the start of the incapacity and will continue until the
earlier of:
- The end of the individual's period of incapacity (see below).
- The individual reaching age 60.
- The Stakeholder Pension Plan is no longer in force, e.g. due to transfer, retirement
(including early and ill health retirement) or death.
- The individual ceases to be eligible for a stakeholder pension (e.g. because they become
a controlling director).
- Contributions to all personal pension schemes (including stakeholder schemes) plus this
benefit exceed Inland Revenue limits.
If you think you have a valid claim contact us by ringing 0845 270 1075. Lines are open
Monday to Friday 8am to 7pm and Saturday 8am to 4pm.
Claims should be notified as soon as reasonably possible. The period of incapacity
normally starts on the day the incapacity begins; however a claim will not normally be
backdated if notification is not given before the end of the 6-month deferred period.
What we will need:
- A completed Claim Form.
- Confirmation by an Appropriate Medical Specialist that your claim satisfies the
appropriate definition. An Appropriate Medical Specialist is someone who must:- hold an appointment as a Consultant or equivalent at a hospital in the European Union,
the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man
- be accepted by our Chief Medical Officer, and
- be a Specialist appropriate to the cause of the claim.
We will not pay a claim if it arises directly or indirectly from:
- Drug abuse &#150; the taking of drugs except under the direction of
a registered medical practitioner.
- Aviation &#150; taking part in any flying activity, other than as a
passenger in a commercially licensed aircraft.
- Criminal acts &#150; taking part in a criminal act.
- Hazardous sports and pastimes &#150; including taking part in horse
racing, underwater diving, or in any race, trial, practice or timed, motor sport.
- Intentional self-inflicted injury.
- HIV/AIDS &#150; Infection with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
or conditions due to any Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).We will not apply the aviation or hazardous sports and pastimes exclusions if the activity
is being undertaken for the first time under the supervision of a trained instructor, or
during a holiday of between 1 week and 4 weeks' duration.
We will not pay a claim if it arises while living outside a listed country for more than
13 consecutive weeks in any 12 months.
The 'listed countries' are:
	
	
	
	
	
The Channel Islands
	
	
Italy
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Isle of Man 
	
	
Luxembourg 
	
	
	
	
	
Australia 
	
	
The Netherlands 
	
	
	
	
	
Austria 
	
	
New Zealand 
	
	
	
	
	
Belgium 
	
	
Norway 
	
	
	
	
	
Canada 
	
	
Portugal 
	
	
	
	
	
Denmark 
	
	
The Republic of Ireland 
	
	
	
	
	
Finland 
	
	
The Republic of South Africa 
	
	
	
	
	
France 
	
	
Spain 
	
	
	
	
	
Germany 
	
	
Sweden 
	
	
	
	
	
Gibraltar 
	
	
Switzerland 
	
	
	
	
	
Greece 
	
	
The United States of America 
	
	
	
	
	
Iceland 
	
	
United Kingdom 
	
	
	
	
The value of tax relief depends on your personal financial circumstances and may be
affected by future changes in legislation.
Severe Disability Cover is not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 	
 	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By the way...
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fair banking with Abbey National means you won't be charged for everyday services.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 
	
	
 
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	Peace of Mind Guarantee 
	Privacy Statement 
	 
	
	
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP YOUR REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. ABBEY NATIONAL PLC, WHICH IS REGULATED BY THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY ONLY ADVISES ON ITS OWN LIFE ASSURANCE, PENSION AND COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME PRODUCTS. THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY DOES NOT REGULATE THE PROVISION OF MORTGAGES, CREDIT CARDS AND UNSECURED PERSONAL LOAN AGREEMENTS.TO HELP US IMPROVE OUR SERVICE WE MAY RECORD OR MONITOR PHONE CALLS.
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
