
HSBC : Personal : Home buying
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home buying 
 
	 
 
 Guide to buying a home 
 
	 
 
 Mortgage calculator 
 
	 
 
 Financing your home 
 
	 
 
 Your choice of rates 
 
	 
 
 Your choice of mortgages 
 
	 
 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 Reasons to choose us 
 
	 
 
 The next step 
 
	 
 
 Important notes 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 	 
 	 
 
 	
 
 
 
 	
 	 
 
 	
 	 	Jump to
 	Mortgage calculator
	 How to contact us
	Find your nearest branch
	Buying your first home
	Moving home
	Transferring your mortgage
	Buildings insurance
	Contents insurance
	UpMyStreet
	Interest rates
 	 	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	Reasons to choose us
	
	
	 
	
	
	1. 
	Loyalty to our customers 
	
	
	
2. 
	
'Best value lender' awards
	
	
	
3. 
	
Our interest rate guarantee 
	
	
	
4. 
	
Our mortgages meet government CAT standards 
	
	
	
5. 
	
Fair practice promises 
	
	
	
6. 
	
Why the lowest rate isn't always the cheapest 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Please click on a line above to read more. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
1. 
	
Loyalty to our customers 
	
	
	 
	
Naturally we want our customers to be loyal to us. For this to happen, we realise that what we offer must show loyalty to our customers. 
	So we have developed a package that we consider the fairest long-term value deal available. 
	Its main features are:
	
	
- No gimmicks or catches and certainly no tie-ins with our variable rate mortgages. We believe our product stands on its own two feet, therefore if you are unhappy you are free to leave with no hassle or charges from us.
	
- A guarantee that our Home Buyer variable rate will be no more than 1% above the Bank of England's base rate.
	
- The opportunity to shorten the life of your mortgage and save thousands of pounds by making overpayments.
	
- Interest calculated daily - the fairest method.
	
- Mortgages which meet the government's CAT standards for fair charges and terms.
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
Back to top 
	
	
	
2. 
	Best value lender award 
	
	
	 
	
In both the 2000 and 2001 "What Mortgage" magazine awards, we were found to have charged less interest on a £70,000 loan over 2 and 10 years than any other national bank. 
	We have since reduced the cost of buying a home even further and introduced an interest rate guarantee. 
	And in the 2002 awards, we have been found to have charged less interest on an £80,000 loan over 2, 5 and 10 years than any other national bank.
	 
	
	
	 
	
Back to top 
	
	
	
3. 
	Our interest rate guarantee 
	
	
	 
	
We guarantee that within one month of a Bank of England base rate reduction, we will amend our Home Buyer variable rate to no more than 1% above base rate. 
	
	
	 
	
Back to top 
	
	
	
4. 
	Our mortgages meet government CAT standards 
	
	
	 
	
HSBC is one of the first lenders to offer mortgages which comply with the government's CAT standards for mortgages. 
	CAT standards set out benchmarks for fair Charges, Access and Terms to help homebuyers compare offers. They provide the reassurance that loans which comply with the standards will be fair.
	
Some of the main requirements are:
	
	
	
- Interest will always be calculated on a daily basis.
	
- All fees will be disclosed in advance so there are no surprises.
	
- No Loan to Valuation Fee (also known as a Mortgage Indemnity Fee) so you will not have to pay an arrangement fee just because your deposit is less than, say, 10% of the property's valuation.
	
	You will not be obliged to take any of our insurance products (but we will usually offer discounts or initial free periods on selected HSBC insurance policies).
	 
	
	
	 
	
Back to top 
	
	
	
5. 
	Fair practice promises 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
- Interest will be calculated by the fairest method - daily.
	
- No lock-ins or repayment fees at any time with variable rate loans.
	
- No extended lock-ins with fixed rates.
	
- Flexibility to overpay by up to 20% of your regular fixed rate repayment free of charge. With a variable rate loan there is no maximum.
	
- Freedom to choose our insurance and other services. We will usually offer you a free period or discount on the premium of selected HSBC insurance policies.
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
Back to top 
	
	
	
6. 
	Why the lowest rate isn't always the cheapest
 
	
	
	 
	
Strange but true. We hope the following will help you understand the issues and prevent you making a costly mistake.
	
Calculation of interest
	
With daily interest, the lender only charges interest on the balance of the account after allowing for any cleared funds received that day.
	
With annual interest, the lender only reduces the balance on which interest is charged once a year. This means you could pay interest on money already repaid!
	
It is always cheaper to have a loan on which interest is calculated on a daily basis, where the headline rates are the same.
	
Lock-ins and extended lock-ins
	
Some lenders offer lower interest rates on the condition that you stay with them for a set period of time. With an extended lock-in, you are required to stay with the lender after the lower rate has finished.
	
If you try to repay the loan, perhaps by transfer to another lender, during the extended lock-in period, then the lender will charge a fee.
	
Is there compulsory insurance?
	
Some lenders make it a condition of their mortgage that the customer must buy and maintain the lender's insurance, which can be expensive. If the customer does not maintain the insurance, the lender may increase the interest rate.
	
In summary
	
	
	
- Always compare the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) and total amount of interest payable over the full term.
	
- Check for lock-ins and make sure you understand what early repayment fees are payable.
	
- Avoid loans where the rate is dependent on you buying the lender's insurance.
	
- Look for a mortgage which meets the government's CAT standards for fair charges and terms.
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
Back to top 
	
	
	 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ways to bank with us
	 Internet Banking
	 TV Banking
	 Telephone Banking
	 Services for customers with disabilities
	 Find a branch
	 UpMyStreet
	 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
