
Products - Treasury - For Business - Ulster Bank (NI)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Products | Our Business | Economic Research | Live Rates | Legal | Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dealing With Card Payments
Banking for Business
Treasury
International Trade Services
Corporate Finance
Business eCommerce
Euro
Online Privacy Policy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How can we help you?
 
 We offer a wide range of foreign exchange 
 and interest rate products and services, all of which can be tailored 
 to suit your company's individual needs. Using a selection of the following 
 products, our corporate dealers will devise the best strategy for your 
 business.
 
Foreign Exchange Products
 
From simple spot transactions to exotic derivative products, Ulster Bank 
 speaks your language - plain English!
 
Spot foreign exchange
 A spot deal is the simplest of foreign exchange transactions and forms 
 the basis for many of the more sophisticated FX products. 
 
 
- Rate agreed today to buy or sell a particular currency
 
- 2 Days Settlement period 
 
 
top 
 ^
 
Forward Foreign Exchange
 With spot foreign exchange deals, the rate is not known until the 
 day of the transaction. With a forward contract, you get the security 
 of knowing exactly what rate will be used on a future transaction, thereby 
 removing the foreign exchange risk. You can fix your exchange rate up 
 to and beyond one year with a minimum contract size of £1000.
 
Foreign Exchange Options
 FX options give companies the right, but not the obligation to buy 
 or sell a currency. Whereas Forward contracts secure the rate, FX Options 
 gives you the opportunity to benefit should the rate improve. So you can 
 either take the Option rate or the market rate - whichever is better. 
 In return for that flexibility, a premium is payable. Additionally, there 
 is a minimum deal size of GBP£500,000.
 
top 
 ^
 
Interest Rate Products
 
As a corporate treasurer, you'll know how difficult it can be to replace 
 traditional methods of adding value. At a time of low interest rates and 
 reduced volatility, it is especially hard. At Ulster Bank, we offer more 
 than just deposit accounts. We give you the opportunity to fix borrowing 
 costs in the future and protect your company from interest rates increases.
 
Deposit Accounts
 
 We offer a competitive service in fixed and call deposit products. 
 Our deposit desk quotes rates for periods up to and beyond one year for 
 all major and some minor currencies. Minimum deposit amount is GPB£10,000 
 equivalent.
 
Yield Enhanced Deposits
 One of the many challenges facing corporate treasurers in the new 
 euro environment is how to replace traditional methods of adding value. 
 This is particularly relevant in a time of low interest rates and reduced 
 volatility when opportunities to add value are substantially reduced.
 
Yield Enhanced Deposit structures are an alternative to conventional 
 money market deposits. They offer investors an opportunity to improve 
 on returns available on conventional money market deposits, if a specific 
 currency view is realised, while also ensuring that the principal is 100% 
 protected.
 
The incentive for investors is that if the currency view is realised 
 the return will be significantly enhanced over conventional money market 
 yields. As a worst case scenario, if the exchange rate does not move as 
 expected the investor receives a lower return on the investment. In any 
 event, the principal is fully protected.
 
Interest Rate Options 
 There are three guises available:
 
 
- Interest Rate Cap - an agreement which protects your interest 
 rate costs from rising above a specified level within an agreed time. 
 As with currency options, you have the option to buy from the market 
 rate if it is better. This product is priced against the base rate or 
 LIBOR. 
 
 
 
- Interest Rate Floor - the opposite of a Cap. Aimed at those 
 who are cash rich and who want protection in a market where interest 
 rates are falling.
 
 
 
- Interest Rate Collar - a combination of a cap and a floor with 
 the effect of reducing or negating the amount of premium payable for 
 the buyer. One party sells a cap, the other sells a floor. Although 
 rates of interest are different, the premiums are equal and are therefore- 
 canceled out. You are then left with a maximum and a minimum interest 
 rate to pay.
 
 
top ^
 
Interest Rate Swaps
	 An Interest Rate Swap is an agreement where two parties agree to swap 
 one interest rate commitment for another. e.g. A company can switch from 
 a floating to a fixed or vice versa depending on what it wants to achieve. 
 This method means the company avoids paying out large amounts of money 
 for insurance premiums.
 
Contact Us
 
For further information, please contact:
	
	
	 Group Treasury 
	
	
	Gerry Brown 
	Director - Sales 
	gerry.brown@ulsterbank.com 
	
	
	 Corporate & Commercial Treasury Sales 
	
	
	Karen Loughrey 
	Senior Business Development Manager 
	karen.loughrey@ulsterbank.com 
	
	
	 Interest Rate Hedging 
	
	
	Brian Lynch 
	Head of Bonds & Derivatives Unit 
	brian.lynch@ulsterbank.com 
	
	
	 Economic Research & Analysis 
	
	
	Niall Dunne 
	Financial Markets Economist 
	niall.dunne@ulsterbank.com 
	
	
	
	
	
	Ulster Bank Financial Markets 
	
	
	Treasury Sales 
	
	
	Ulster Bank Group Centre 
	
	
	Donegall Square East 
	
	
	Belfast 
	
	 
	
	Tel: 028 9027 6460 
	
	
	Fax: 028 9027 6900 
	
	
	web-site: www.tradergold.com 
	
	
	
	
 
top ^
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spot Foreign Exchange
 Forward Foreign Exchange
 Foreign Exchange Options
 Interest Rate Products 
 
 Deposit Accounts
 Interest Rate Options
 Interest Rate Swaps
 Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 
 
Live Market Data
 
 
 and one 
 of our team will 
 contact you.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
