
Standard Life Bank - FAQ
About Us
Mortgages
Personal Savings
Business Savings
Insurance
Online Banking
Contact Us
Rates
Brochure Library
Added Extras
Site Map
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"">
 
 
 
 
 
HomeBusiness SavingsSmall BusinessesFAQ 
Business Accounts Questions
Our aim is to make banking as simple as possible. So we have tried to answer all the questions most frequently asked:
- Who can open a business account?.....
- What types of business account are available?
- What is a Savings Plan?
- Are there any charges for this account?
- How secure is the business account?
- How do I make deposits and withdrawals?
- What is pooling?
- How and when is interest paid?
- When will I receive statements?
- How do I open a business account?
- How do I get more information?
If you still have a query, click here for details of how you can get in touch with us directly.
 
Who can open a business account?
The accounts are available to businesses resident in the UK and limited companies incorporated in the UK. Client accounts are currently not available to solicitors in Northern Ireland.
Back to top    
 
What types of business account are available?
You can choose a Direct Access Savings Account or a 10 Day Notice Account. Both offer competitive tiered interest rates. The 10 Day Notice Account offers higher interest but you must give 10 clear days’ notice before making any withdrawals. Both accounts work alongside an existing bank or building society business account (known as the designated external account).
Back to top    
 
What is a Savings Plan?
A Savings Plan can hold up to 99 different accounts for the same pension scheme trust and all the accounts are completely separate. This means you can set up different named accounts for different things. A Savings Plan can include Direct Access Savings Accounts as well as 10 Day Notice Accounts.
Back to top    
 
Are there any charges for this account?
Association accounts do not have any charges attached to them for normal transactions. However, with a 10 Day Notice Account, you will be charged a penalty equal to 10 days gross interest on the amount withdrawn if you do not give us 10 clear days’ notice of withdrawal. There is no limit to the number of withdrawals that you can request. In addition, interim statements can be requested at any time free of charge.
Charges will be made for Clearing House Automated Payment System (CHAPS) transfers, any cheques that are not honoured and failed direct debits.
Back to top    
 
How secure is the charity account?
Your Association account is easy to access and yet incredibly secure. There is a minimum of two and a maximum of three authorised persons on all charity accounts. These are the only people able to make transactions on the account or make alterations to the way in which it is run. Each authorised person has their own personal identification number (PIN) and password which allows for business to be transacted security between your designated external account and your Standard Life Bank charity account
There is also the option to register for our online banking facility, once your Savings Plan is opened. If you transact online, you have the reassurance that we use the latest security technology - you will be asked for your internet User ID and password when you log on. And, just in case you forget to log off, the system will automatically log off for you if you haven't used your mouse or keypad after a few minutes. 
Back to top    
 
How do I make deposits and withdrawals? 
When you open a business account you will be asked to provide details of your existing bank or building society business account. This account will be used for all transactions to and from your Standard Life Bank account and must be in the name of your business. This is referred to as your designated external account. 
 
It's simple to deposit or withdraw money: 
- Online Banking 
Once you have opened your Business Savings Plan, you may register for Online Banking. You register via this website or by simply calling us on 0845 601 2356. When you have registered for online banking we will send you your UserId and internet password by post. 
You can use your UserId and internet password to carry out transactions on your accounts during our online banking hours (Monday to Friday 7am-11pm, on Saturday 8am-8pm and Sunday 12pm-8pm). 
There are certain amendments to the business account which can only be made over the telephone, such as a change of authorised person, so it is important that you retain details of your PIN and password even if you generally transact online.
- Telephone banking
Just ring us Monday to Friday 8am-10pm or Saturday 8am-5pm. You will be asked for a random number from your PIN and a character from your password. Money can be transferred easily from your designated external account into your Standard Life Bank account. If you wish, you can make regular payments into your business account by Direct Debit.
 
All deposits and withdrawals are made to and from your designated external account. Initial deposits can be made by CHAPS, cheque or Bank Giro Credit. 
When you're withdrawing money from your business account, it will be paid into your designated external business account. The process will normally take 3 working days but you will receive interest right up until the money is in your designated external account. Withdrawals made from a 10 Day Notice Account will be subject to 10 days’ notice. If you are unable to give us 10 days’ notice of withdrawal, you will be charged a penalty equal to 10 days’ gross interest on the amount withdrawn which will be deducted from the remaining balance on the account.
Back to top    
 
What is pooling?
Within your Plan you can have up to 99 accounts. We pay interest on each individual account at the rate which applies to the total balance of all the pooled accounts held in the Plan. As our interest is calculated in tiers, this means your charity could earn even more. 
You can set up separate named accounts for different things within a Savings Plan - for example, running costs, emergency funds, and advertising budget. All the accounts remain completely separate but this facility makes the administration of separate funds easy while potentially giving you access to higher returns.
You must pool accounts with the same notice period - you can’t pool 10 Day Notice Accounts with Direct Access Savings Accounts.
Back to top    
 
How and when is interest paid?
 
Interest is paid to each individual account at the rate which applies to the total Savings Plan balance. Up to 99 accounts can be held within each Savings Plan. Interest, which is calculated daily, can be paid either monthly or annually. It can be: 
- added to the individual account 
- transferred to another account in the same Savings Plan 
- paid to the designated external account 
Please note, interest is paid GROSS to Clubs Associations & Societies.
Back to top    
 
When will I receive statements? 
We will normally send you statements on an annual basis but you can request them monthly, quarterly or half yearly. 
If you use our Online Banking service you can browse your account during our Internet banking hours Monday to Friday 7am - 11pm, Saturday 8am - 8pm and Sunday 12 noon - 8pm.
Back to top    
 
How do I open a Association account?
Opening a association account is remarkably quick and simple. All you have to do is ring us on 0845 609 0257 Monday to Friday 8am - 10pm or on Saturday 8am - 5pm. We will take details and issue a Welcome Pack directly to your business address, for the attention of the first authorised person. A PIN/password letter will be issued to each authorised person at their home address. You then complete the necessary documents in the Welcome Pack and return them to us along with the information requested. We will issue an opening balance statement direct to the business address upon receipt of your initial deposit.
When calling to open the Business Plan we require the following details 
- Full name and postal address for the club, society or association 
- Details of authorised persons - full name, home address, business telephone number 
- Designated bank/building society name and address, account name, number and sort code 
- Initial deposit/regular deposit amount (if regular, frequency and date) 
- Where and how often interest should be paid 
- Frequency of statements required 
If you are calling on behalf of a client 
- Your name and company name 
- your agency code (if applicable)
Back to top    
 
How do I get more information?
If you still have a query about a Standard Life Bank business account, just phone us on 0845 609 0256, where one of our telephone banking operators will be happy to help you. We are open 8am-10pm Monday-Friday or 8am-5pm on Saturday. 
Back to top    
 
The information, services and products on this web site are intended for use by residents of the United Kingdom only. Please click on the following link for full details of Standard Life Bank legal information
©2001 Standard Life Bank Limited
 
 
 
 
 
