
Clydesdale Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	 
 	 
 Press Releases 2002 
 
	 
 	 
 Press Releases 2001 
 
	 
 	 
 Press Releases 2000 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Us > Our Press Releases 2001 > Clydesdale Bank introduces new financial planning and advice service
 
Our Press Releases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clydesdale Bank introduces new financial planning and advice service
 
03 December 2001
 
Customers of the Clydesdale Bank are now able to access the skills of some of the world's best investment managers 
 thanks to a new financial planning and advice service the bank has introduced this month.
 
The service is provided by Clydesdale Bank financial planners and offers financial advice based on customers' 
 long-term lifestyle objectives. It was developed in conjunction with leading Australian financial services company, 
 MLC Ltd.
 
The new service offers customers financial planning and advice proposition based around: 
 
 
- focusing on customers' long-term lifestyle objectives 
 
- accessing some of the world's best investment managers via MLC's "manager-of-managers" investment process 
 (see below) 
 
- supporting financial planners to develop strong relationships with their customers through greater administrative 
 support, technology and processes 
 
 
 
MLC is one of Australia's most respected companies with a 100-year history and a reputation for professionalism, 
 integrity and a commitment to customer service. MLC is part of the National Australia Bank, which also owns 
 Clydesdale Bank.
 
In 1985, MLC introduced into Australia an investment process known as the "manager-of-managers". Rather than 
 putting all its customers' eggs into one basket, MLC uses a range of some of the world's best investment managers 
 to invest on their behalf.
 
MLC combines a range of specialist managers to build greater diversity into customers' portfolios with the 
 objective of reducing volatility and producing more consistent returns over the long term. MLC is the 4th largest 
 company in the world using the process.
 
The General Manager of Clydesdale Bank Business Development, John Wight, said: "One of the great advantages 
 of being part of an international banking group is that we can bring to customers the benefits of our global 
 skills and experience.
 
"In this case, we have developed a new service that builds on the strong relationships Clydesdale Bank has 
 with its customers by offering them the capabilities of MLC. 
 
"We have equipped our financial planners with the latest technology, sophisticated modeling software and an 
 advice process that allows them to really understand what their customers want out of life now and in the future.
 
"This is financial planning at its best. It focuses on long term strategies and we are greatly looking forward 
 to introducing it to our customers."
 
The head of MLC and CEO of the National's Wealth Management Division, Peter Scott, said MLC's experience and 
 capabilities had transferred easily to the UK market.
 
"We have built an offering that puts customers' lifestyle goals first. With the help of our planners it enables 
 customers to step back and take a more long-term strategic view of their financial planning needs. It brings 
 access to some of the best of the world's investment expertise to each person's own circumstances. 
 
"Our experience in Australia and in the UK shows us that planners need to be able to focus on understanding 
 and responding to their customers' needs. To enable them to do so, we have equipped our financial planners with 
 the latest technology, sophisticated modeling software and an advice process that allows them to truly help 
 their customers to get want they out of life now and in the future.
 
"Our entire approach is supported by the manager of managers investment process, which deals with manager selection, 
 asset allocation and daily rebalancing and gives our financial planners the time they need to understand and 
 respond to their customers."
 
The CEO of the National's European Wealth Management operations, Paul Rogan, said a key to the success of the 
 financial planning service was that it would build on the strengths of the UK banks.
 
"The Clydesdale, Northern and Yorkshire banks are very solid brands in their respective markets. We have an 
 established and trusted network of financial planners who have now received training in the new investment service 
 and are now supported by great administration, process and information technology.
 
"The new financial planner service completes the picture in terms of helping customers with all their financial 
 needs. We are now able to offer truly holistic financial services, from lifestyle financial planning to easy 
 access to the full range of banking services and solutions, thanks to our close working relationships with our 
 UK banks.
 
"Good financial planning should start early in life, which is why we are not restricting our investors to high 
 minimum investments. We are also giving our customers the opportunity for a regular review of the financial 
 plan to deal with the changes that occur in their lives and keep their plan on track to meet their objectives.
 
"The new service is complete and competitive, but also able to evolve and grow to keep pace with our customers' 
 needs. For example, in the future we will be looking to offer additional funds, to continue to update the technology 
 our planners use and to refine of the way our financial planners work with their customers."
 
MLC investment process: manager of managers
 
MLC uses a sophisticated investment process known as the manager of managers. The approach is based on the 
 philosophy that different asset classes, markets and investment manager styles perform differently at different 
 times. 
 
MLC's objective is to combine investment managers in such a way that no single asset class, market or investment 
 style dominates in any fund. The objective - greater diversity, reduced volatility and more consistent returns.
 
MLC uses an experienced team of in-house professionals to research, select and monitor our investment managers 
 and our investment process. The specialist investment managers used in the UK are Capital Group, Deutsche Asset 
 Management, Fidelity Investments, Henderson Global Investors, Morley Fund Management, Phillips & Drew and Western 
 Asset Management.
 
Investing with MLC
 
To invest with MLC, Clydesdale Bank customers will first speak with one of the bank's financial planners. Depending 
 on their needs, the planner will help to identify their lifestyle and investment objectives, their current financial 
 situation and their investment profile - whether they are a cautious or more aggressive investor.
 
A personalised financial plan is then created for the customer that may recommend tax wrappers, investment 
 and retirement strategies, according to the customers needs.
 
Customers can invest by lump sum (minimum £3,000) or by monthly savings (minimum £50) directly in the MLC Open 
 Ended Investment Company or ISA, or transfer into an MLC PEP. 
 
MLC is initially offering six funds to UK customers - four single sector funds (UK Equity, Global Equity, High 
 Income and Sheltered Growth) and two multi-sector funds (Conservative and Balanced). These funds are then combined 
 to create tailored investment portfolios that match customers' risk profiles and investment objectives. 
 
Customers receive detailed information on their financial plan, including information on which investment managers 
 are working on their behalf to achieve their investment objectives. 
 
'MLC' is a trading name of MLC Trust Management Company Limited (No. 2949646) and MLC Savings Limited (No. 
 3663932). These companies are registered in England (Registered Office: 88 Wood Street, London, EC2V 7QQ). MLC 
 Trust Management Company Limited and MLC Savings Limited are members of, and represent only, the National Australia 
 Life Marketing Group and are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for the purposes of advising on and 
 selling adopted stakeholder pensions, unit trusts, collective investment schemes and collective investment scheme 
 ISAs.
 
 Clydesdale Bank PLC, represents only the companies within the National Australia Life Marketing Group (which 
 are companies regulated by the Financial Services Authority) and can advise on and sell their life assurance, 
 pension, adopted stakeholder pension, unit trust and collective investment scheme products.
 
 Clydesdale Bank PLC. Registered in Scotland (No. SC001111) Registered Office: 30 Vincent Place, Glasgow G1 
 2HL.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 	
	
	 
	© Clydesdale Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
