
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your 
 Home > Rapid Repay > What the Press are saying > Rapid results pay off your home loan fast 
 
Your Home
	
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapid results pay off your home loan fast
 
Sunday Life
PAGE: 26
DATE: Sunday 21st April 2002
By John McGurk
An 'all-in-one' account which works to pay off your home loan at the same time - that's the money making attraction of the global financial sensation, arriving in Ulster this spring.
The Northern Bank is aiming to blow more traditional mortgage facilities out of the water with the launch of its groundbreaking Rapid Repay current account mortgage, this month.
The new 'no fuss' financial facility combines banking requirements such as your current account, overdraft, personal loan, savings and mortgage - all into `one pot' called Rapid Repay.
'Revelation' and `revolution' are some other 's employed to describe the remarkable success of Rapid Repay since its Bank of New Zealand 'birth', back in 1998. 
Some of the advantages of the Rapid Repay current account mortgage are: 
- Financial flexibility that comes with no rigid monthly repayments and an in-built loan safety limit to help you with your budgeting.
- Personal loans, which can be used for anything from a car to a wedding - at the mortgage interest rate. There's no tax to be paid on savings interest as savings are used to pay off the mortgage. The interest savings with Rapid Repay will often be greater than any interest earned in a savings account.
- One 'easy to understand' statement to assist you in keeping track of all your transactions and expenditure.
- Access to withdrawals at any time, within your safety limit.
Just paying your salary directly into the Rapid Repay account and timely bill paying, budgeting with your credit card, can also knock years and thousands of pounds off your mortgage payments, says the Northern.
The bank's General Manager, Personal Financial Services, Katherine James said: "What this particular product does is to take you away from a mortgage in the usual sense of the word."
This is an 'all-in-one' account which breaks out of the traditional mindset of people having their money in 'boxes' or different pots in their bank.
What happens is that you are putting your money into one account, whilst paying off your mortgage at the same time.
You always have total control over accessing your money. And when you don't need to access it, it is still always working away the best that it can for you.'
A CD-rom is also part of the Rapid Repay support package, showing customers how to make the most of their money.
Katherine explained: "By just manipulating when your salary comes in and timing when you pay off your credit card debt, you can actually make your money work even harder for you and save in terms of interest payments. "
According to Katherine, there has been a real "wow factor" reaction from Northern Bank staff trained to handle the product at its 95 branches in the province.
Now the 'Northern' is banking on repeating Rapid Repay's astonishingly swift success in England and Scotland - where 45pc of all new mortgage customers with the Yorkshire and Clydesdale banks are now Rapid Repay account holders.
Katherine said: "In the markets it has already been launched in - Scotland, England and New Zealand - it has done phenomenally well".
Now it will be the first of its kind in the Northern Ireland market place. No other High Street lender can offer this type of mortgage at the minute. "I think this will be our single biggest opportunity to get people to change their mindset about how they borrow money. It's that important."
And the other local financial institutions will attempt to emulate their example, of that Katherine is certain.
This is the most significant launch we have had since 1994, when we launched our Tailored Home Loan. It puts us right out there in terms of being innovators in this market place.
"We see this very much from a leadership position and we expect the others will follow."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rapid Repay 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Benefits 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Personal Illustration 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Downloads 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Important Information 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 What the Press are saying 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
