
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	ISA 
	
	
	
	
	 Open an ISA account
	 Manage Your ISA
	 What is an ISA ?
	 Why Citibank ?
	 Who is in it ?
 Need 
 help ? 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
Investing tax free with ISAs 
 
 The big attraction of investing in Individual 
 Savings Accounts is that you can enjoy your returns 
 free of all income and capital gains taxes. 
 If your chosen ISA manager is an insurer, you 
 do not have to pay tax on any income or capital 
 gains made from investments used to back any ISA 
 life insurance policies you have. And you do not 
 have to pay any tax when the policy pays out. 
 You can take your money out at any time without 
 losing tax relief and you do not have to declare 
 income or capital gains from ISA savings and investments. 
 
 Your ISA manager will arrange for tax credits 
 attached to dividends from UK companies to be 
 paid into your ISA. The UK government allows these 
 to be set against your liability to pay tax on 
 dividends. Additionally, when The government is 
 committed to phasing out tax credits and this 
 will make tax-favoured investments like ISAs even 
 more attractive for some investors. If you are 
 tempted to broaden your investments out into Europe 
 or beyond, remember that dividends from companies 
 based outside the UK do not carry a tax credit. 
 
 
Article Overview: 
 
 
- Investment alternatives 
 
 
- Stocks and shares
 
- Cash
 
 
 
- Change of entitlements
 
- Inheritance tax
 
- Points to remember 
 
 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
 
Investment alternatives
 You can use certain investment refinements 
 to make the most of your current assets and entitlements 
 especially if you do not have sufficient ready 
 cash to utilise all your allowance. If you are 
 in an Inland Revenue approved all-employee share 
 scheme run by your employer, then you can transfer 
 any shares you get from that scheme into the stocks 
 and shares component of an ISA without having 
 to pay Capital Gains Tax. 
 There are provisos, however. Your ISA manager 
 must agree to accept them and the employer scheme 
 should be a 'sharesave' or profit sharing plan 
 
 
 
STOCKS AND SHARES The stocks and shares 
 part of an ISA can include any authorised unit 
 or investment trust or open-ended investment company 
 (Oeic), as well as any share quoted on a stock 
 exchange recognised by the Inland Revenue. You 
 are also allowed to include direct holdings of 
 gilts, bought with at least five years to go to 
 maturity. 
 There are generally no global investment restrictions 
 except that shares must be listed on an exchange 
 approved by the Inland Revenue. However, this 
 does not apply in the case of stocks and shares 
 ISAs with the CAT-mark. These require that at 
 least 50% of the investments are in stocks and 
 shares that can be bought and sold on stock exchanges 
 of countries that belong to the European Union. 
 CAT standards were introduced to encourage companies 
 offering ISAs to keep their products and their 
 charges simple. 
 The mark of the CAT on an ISA is designed to reassure 
 investors that fees will be reasonable and easy 
 to understand and investments straightforward. 
 It is simpler for a UK investor to invest through 
 EU stock exchanges than through some in Asia or 
 Latin America because of proximity and dealing 
 arrangements. 
 
CASH If you choose to use cash you can 
 place deposits with banks and building societies 
 or use money market funds. Some National Savings 
 are alternatives and these include a range of 
 bonds and accounts on which you would normally 
 have to pay tax if you invested in them outside 
 of an ISA. Investors can also choose to use investments 
 with a life insurance element such as with profits 
 bonds and unit-linked life insurance funds are 
 included here. 
 Unlike pensions there is no tax relief on the 
 cash you invest but the investments you hold within 
 an ISA grow free of all income and capital gains 
 tax. 
 Back 
 to top
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
 
Change of entitlements 
 
 If you start an ISA in the UK and then go abroad, 
 you cannot carry on putting money into the ISA 
 unless you are a Crown employee working overseas. 
 However, the ISA will remain alive and you will 
 still get tax relief. And, when you return to 
 live in the UK, you can start investing money 
 again according to your allowances. If, by mistake, 
 you have exceeded your allowance, perhaps by taking 
 out more than one ISA in a tax year, then the 
 payment into the second ISA will be regarded as 
 invalid. 
 Back 
 to top
	
	 
	 
	 
	
 
Inheritance tax 
 
 The investments that make up your ISA will form 
 a part of your estate for inheritance tax assessments. 
 The ISA manager will sell the investments and 
 pay the proceeds to the former holder's personal 
 representatives or beneficiaries. Alternatively 
 the manager may transfer the investments to them 
 direct. When you take out an ISA you might be 
 well advised to check such arrangements. An ISA 
 life insurance policy will pay out on the death 
 of the holder. Again there is no tax to pay on 
 income or capital gains that arise before the 
 insurer accepts the claim. But personal representatives 
 will be taxed on any interest that is paid if 
 there is a delay in paying out the claim. 
 Back 
 to top
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
 
Points to remember 
 
 
 
 
 
- The government is committed to phasing out 
 tax credits altogether on dividends paid by 
 UK companies but points out that investors can 
 move to tax-favoured investments such as ISAs 
 where this suits them. 
 
- Dividends from companies based outside the 
 UK do not carry a tax credit. This should be 
 borne in mind if you are tempted to broaden 
 your investments out into Europe or beyond.
 
- Unlike pensions there is no tax relief on 
 the cash you invest but the investments you 
 hold within an ISA grow free of all income and 
 capital gains tax. 
 
- If you start an ISA in the UK and then go 
 abroad, you cannot carry on putting money into 
 the ISA unless you are a Crown employee working 
 overseas. However, the ISA will remain in existence 
 and you will still get tax relief. 
 
- The ISA ends when the investor owning it dies. 
 Although there is no liability to income or 
 capital gains up to the date of death, there 
 is 
 
 Back to top
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
The Fidelity FundsNetwork is an 'investment supermarket'. 
 More Info
Charges can be complex as they vary from fund to fund and from provider to provider.
 More Info
RELATED LINKS
	 
Click here for the up to the minute news and market information.
 More Info
	
	 
Citibank provides all the background you need for making informed investments.
 More Info
	 
Examine the present then prepare for the future.
 More Info
	 
Why not consult our Standard & Poor's tutorials for an independent view of the investments marketplace.
 More Info
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
 Citi.com 
	
	
	
	Issued by Citibank International plc, which is regulated by FSA in the conduct of its investment business directed at UK Residents. 
	Fidelity ISA introduced by Citibank, warnings
	 and 
	terms and conditions 
	Terms, conditions, caveats and small print 
	Copyright © 2001 Citicorp 
 This site is intended for UK residents 
	 
