CVS INFO
Description of the template or HTML page
Author : $Author: vastrom $
Version : $Revision: 1.13 $
Date : $Date: 2001/01/24 13:19:28 $
-->
 
Sainsbury's Bank - Mortgages - options mortgage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 apply now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 mortgage expert 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > the benefits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > repayment examples 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > any questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > switch for free 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > terms & conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > mortgages Payment Sure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > charges and fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > repayment information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay discount mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 fixed rate mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy-to-Let mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 some definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
> choosing how to repay | > some ways to repay | > interest rates | > administration fees | > other costs 
 
 
 
Here are some of the ways you can arrange to pay the loan amount of an 
 interest only mortgage.
 
 with profit endowment assurance 
 
This combines an investment plan with life assurance. It should repay 
 the mortgage at the end of the agreed period, or in the event of your 
 death.
 
 The amount you receive at the end of the period is usually enhanced 
 by annual bonuses, so that there is money left over after repaying the 
 mortgage. This would be paid to you (or your dependents if you died).
 
 It can be more expensive than other schemes, but does mean that you 
 can pay the mortgage in full.
 
 unit linked endowment assurance
 
 Payments are used to buy 'units' in a range of funds such as fixed interest 
 rate deposits, property, or shares in public companies. You can choose 
 the funds, and they can be administered by fund managers. The different 
 investments offer stability against the sometimes unstable market conditions. 
 The choice of funds also means you can strike a balance between security 
 and growth potential to match your own circumstances and personal objectives. 
 
 
The payments are designed to create a fund that will repay your mortgage, 
 but investments can fall as well as rise, and you may end up having to 
 pay a lump sum at the end of the agreed period. 
 
There is life assurance included in this plan, which means that your 
 mortgage could be repaid in full if you died before the mortgage ends. 
 
 
low cost endowment assurance 
 
This is like the 'with profit endowment plan'. The repayment calculations 
 assume a certain future rate of investment returns that support annual 
 bonuses. This should result in a fund big enough to pay off the full loan 
 amount. The annual bonuses cannot be guaranteed. You would receive any 
 surplus, but you would also have to pay any deficit.
 
 The life assurance in this plan means that your mortgage could be paid 
 in full if you died before the end of the mortgage period. This is often 
 the cheapest option, although you may have to pay a lump sum at the end 
 of the period. 
 
open ended investment company (OEIC) 
 
This is a collective investment scheme. Your monthly payments are used 
 to purchase shares in various funds offered, and you can structure the 
 payments to repay the mortgage in a way that suits your needs. There is 
 no guarantee that the value of your investments will be enough to pay 
 the loan amount at the end of the mortgage period and you may have to 
 pay a lump sum. 
 
OEICs do not include life cover, and it is strongly recommended that 
 you take out a separate policy to repay your mortgage if you were to die 
 before the mortgage ends. 
 
individual savings account (ISA) 
 
This is a tax efficient investment introduced in 1999. Your money will 
 be invested in shares, unit and investment trusts and life assurance or 
 cash. The tax advantages are specific to your circumstances. Using ISAs 
 to repay your mortgage carries a high degree of risk, with tax levels 
 and reliefs subject to Governmental change. There is also no guarantee 
 that the funds will be sufficient to repay the full mortgage amount. You 
 could end up with a surplus, or you could have to pay the deficit. 
 
ISAs do not include life cover, and it is strongly recommended that you take out a separate policy to repay your mortgage if you were to die before the mortgage ends.
 
pension plan policies 
 
These have traditionally been used to provide retirement income, but 
 the lump sum can also be used to repay a mortgage. At the moment, contributions 
 are treated as an allowable expense for Income Tax purposes, and the funds 
 invested grow free of UK Capital Gains Tax. The value of the relief depends 
 on your personal financial circumstances. Because of the tax concessions, 
 this is a popular choice for people who are not already in a company pension 
 scheme.
 
 There is no guarantee that the lump sum will be enough to repay the 
 mortgage amount, and you could end up paying the deficit. Pension policies 
 do not include life cover, and it is strongly recommended that you take out a life policy to repay your mortgage if you were to die before the mortgage ends.
 
IMPORTANT NEWS FOR CUSTOMERS
 
Sainsbury's Bank is committed to providing you with a route to obtaining tailored financial advice to help create wealth and security for yourself and your family. We therefore arranged for Sainsbury's Bank customers to be Introduced to Bank of Scotland Marketing Group and their financial advisors. Many of our customers have benefited from this facility.
 
You may be aware that Bank of Scotland has recently merged with Halifax plc, and, with effect from 1st January 2002, a new Marketing Group will come into being. This will be known as the Halifax Financial Services Marketing Group and Sainsbury's Bank will continue to Introduce only to the Halifax Financial Services Marketing Group for advising on and selling life assurance, pension and collective investment scheme business.
 
Combining the strengths of Sainsbury's Bank and the Halifax Financial Services Marketing Group is an exciting commitment to provide our customers with access to a full range of "value for money" financial products. If you have any queries regarding this change please contact us.
 
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS 
 ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
