
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your 
 Home > First Time Buyers
 
Your Home
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
First Time Buyers
	 
Your first home?
Ask us about help for first time buyers
	 
First Choice for First Timers
 
We've been helping people buy their own homes for many years. So 
 you know that with Northern you're getting professional expertise 
 that's backed with experience too. And that's what will help you 
 get the information and support you need.
 
Start At The Beginning
 
Sounds an obvious piece of advice, yet it's better to find out 
 how much you can borrow and what the repayments are likely to be 
 before you set your heart on a property.
 
That's just one piece of advice you'll find useful as you navigate 
 the process - a process we can guide you through, right up to the 
 moving in stage and beyond.
 
In short, because Northern is the home of the Tailored Home Loan 
 we offer you several advantages.
 
The Tailored Home Loan at a glance
 
flexibility - tailoring allows you flexibility in your repayment 
 schedule, so you can pay more when you can - including lump sums 
 - or less if your circumstances change (subject of course to maintaining 
 a minimum repayment)
 
could save you time - by paying more you could cut years 
 off the term of your loan and own your home outright much sooner 
 *
 
could save you money - by paying more when it suits you, 
 you could save thousands over the term of your loan *
 
daily calculation of interest - when you make each repayment, 
 your balance is reduced the same day and because we calculate the 
 interest on your loan daily (rather than monthly or even yearly), 
 you pay less interest
 
control - within the boundaries of your Tailored Home Loan, 
 you call the shots
 
peace of mind - put all these benefits together and they 
 add up to priceless reassurance
 
Why choose Northern
 
Our friendly and helpful team:
 
 
- have been helping people buy their own homes for many years
 
- will explain everything in simple, plain English
 
- will provide information on the different types of mortgage 
 we offer so that you can make an informed choice
 
- will help you work out how much you can borrow and discuss what 
 you feel you can comfortably afford
 
- will give you a free, no-obligation quotation to take away
 
- are here for you before, during and after your move and we will 
 stay in touch
 
	
Even if you are not ready to buy now, ask one of our team at any 
 branch for a free, no-obligation quotation and see for yourself 
 what a difference the attractive benefits of our Tailored Home Loan 
 can really offer.
 
We're sure you'll find that by talking to us about the Tailored 
 Home Loan options available to first time buyers one of them will 
 be right for you.
 
* The savings compare the Tailored Home Loan with our standard 
 25 year repayment Home Loan of the same amount.
 
Written quotations are available on request. All loans are subject 
 to status and applicants must be 18 or over. Security is required. 
 One or more of the following policies may be required : Endowment, 
 Pension Plan, Mortgage Guarantee.
 
Interest rates and charges are correct as at 1 March 2002 but these 
 may vary, which could affect repayments. Typical example: A Tailored 
 Home Loan of £50,000 at 5.99% variable with 220 monthly repayments 
 increased by approximately £50 to £375.00 saves £14,125.29 
 in interest charges and 6 years 8 months on the loan term. The APR 
 6.3% variable and total amount repayable £82,734.28 include 
 £552.50 estimate for arrangement fee, legal and valuation 
 costs. The maximum loan is 95% for First Time Buyers, 90% for existing 
 property owners, based on the lower of the purchase price or valuation. 
 For loans in excess of 90% of the lower of the cost or valuation 
 of the property, Mortgage Guarantee Insurance is required.
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE 
 OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
Northern is a trading name of Northern Bank Limited and is regulated 
 by the Financial Services Authority. It is a member of the National 
 Australia Bank Group. It represents only the National Australia 
 Life Marketing Group, whose companies are regulated by the Financial 
 Services Authority for the purpose of advising on and selling life 
 assurance products, pensions, adopted stakeholder pensions, ISA's 
 and collective investment products.
	 
Mortgages are not currently regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
At Northern we subscribe to the Mortgage Code and provide information 
 on the different types of mortgage products we offer so that you 
 can make an informed choice of which to take. Copies of the Code 
 are available on request. Please ask for a copy of "You and 
 Your Mortgage", a leaflet is available from Northern branches.
 
Northern Bank Limited, Registered in Northern Ireland No. R568, 
 Registered Office: Donegall Square West, Belfast, BT1 6JS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
