
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 Welcome
	 Security
	 Getting Started
	 Demo
	 FAQ
	 User Guide
	 Sign On
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
 For 
 help using Citibank Internet Banking, look here! 
 
Citibank Internet Banking has been designed to be as user-friendly as 
 possible but if you need any help using the features and tools, this is 
 where to start. 
 Click on one of the item menus below, or have a general browse through for 
 the complete Internet Banking story. 
 
 
 
 
- Login 
 
- Logoff 
 
- Using a computer that isn't exclusively yours 
 
 
- How to use the facilities
 
 
- Account Information 
 
- Transfers and Payments 
 
- Travel Services 
 
- Customer Services 
 
 
- Tips for making Citibank Internet Banking even quicker
 
- System Requirements
 
- Further information
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
Login 
 
 
Signing On If you're a new user: 
 
 
- You will be asked to enter your Citicard number. This will be stored 
 as a cookie for future sessions so that you will not have to re-enter 
 it.
 
- You'll be asked to enter your Citibank Internet Banking Identification 
 Number (IBID). This should have been mailed to you after you opened 
 your account. If not, call Customer Services at CitiPhone Banking on 
 0800 00 55 00. 
 
- You'll then be asked to read through and agree to our terms and conditions 
 . Then you can specify a user name to use in future sessions. 5 You're 
 off! 
 
 
If you're an existing user: 
 
 
- If you specified a user name in the 'New User' option then you will 
 see this in the Drop-Down box. 
 
- Select your User Name. 
 
- Enter your Citibank Internet Banking Identification Number (IBID). 
 
 
- You're off!
 
 
Back to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Logoff 
 
 
 
 
- Having done what you wanted, select the Sign Off option at the top 
 of the screen. This will close your session. 
 
- As you Sign Off you'll be given the option to see and print a summary 
 of what you've done during that session. 
 
 
What happens if you forget to Sign Off?
 If your computer is inactive for four minutes, then a Time Out facility 
 is triggered to help protect you against unauthorised access. The Time 
 Out message will pop up on your screen. If you do not click the OK button 
 Citibank Internet Banking will automatically terminate your session after 
 a further minute. If you don't wish to terminate your session, simply 
 click Cancel instead.
 
Back to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Using 
 a computer that isn't exclusively yours 
 
 
If you are using a computer that isn't yours, such as at work or in an 
 Internet Cafe, then please keep in mind whether someone else may see your 
 account details. For example, ensure that you never store your Card Number 
 on the computer, never leave the computer unattended whilst connected 
 to Citibank, and do not provide your account information if the screens 
 you see are unfamiliar.
 
Back to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How 
 to use the facilities 
 
 
Account Information 
 
 You can get the following information on your Citibank account or accounts 
 whenever you want: 
 
 
- Check your balances 
 
- See and print balance summaries 
 
- See and print a list of all your transactions (up to a maximum of 
 99 transactions)
 
- Download account information to use with Quicken©, Excel and Microsoft® 
 Money 
 
 
Transfers 
 and Payments 
 You can pay bills and transfer money from just about anywhere in the world. 
 
 
 
- Pay bills to virtually anyone in the UK 
 
- Transfer money to another linked Citibank account in the UK or Europe 
 
 
- Transfer money to another UK bank account 
 
- Set up new Payees and Standing Orders 
 
 
Travel Services 
 
 You can order travellers cheques in Sterling, US Dollars, and Japanese 
 Yen. Just complete the information required and you should receive them 
 within 2 working days. 
 
Customer Services 
 
 With Citibank Internet Banking you can also: 
 
 
- Order a statement 
 
- Order a new cheque book 
 
- Stop cheques 
 
- Open a new account 
 
- Notify us of add ress changes 
 
- Change your Citicard ATM PIN or Citibank Internet Banking Identification 
 Number (e-PIN) 
 
- Message facility
 
 
Back to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tips 
 for making Citibank Internet Banking even quicker 
 
 
From time to time it's a good idea to review the following facilities 
 to give you even faster access to the services that you use most. 
 
Want to personalise your Home Page? 
 You'll usually find this on the top menu bar. It gives you the option 
 to specify a Citibank Internet Banking 'Home Page' which will appear when 
 you first Sign On. Alternatively you can select the 'Home Page' option 
 within Internet Banking. 
 
Want quicker access to the topics you use most? 
 Just select Shortcut Favourites. 
 
Need a Summary Record at Sign Off? 
 The Summary Record facility allows you to see or print a record of what 
 you've done in each session. You can select whether or not you get the 
 Summary Record prompt at the end of each session. 
 
Need a map? 
 The Site Map gives you an 'at a glance' display of the whole Citibank 
 Internet Banking site. Each item is a hot link to that feature, so if 
 you want it, just click on it.
 
Back to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
 Requirements 
 
 
To use Citibank Internet Banking you need the following: 
 
 
- A Citibank UK Current Account 
 
 
 
 
- PC 
 If you have a PC this is what you need: 
 
 
- MS Windows 95/98/NT Operating System
 
- Pentium Processor or greater
 
- Optimal Screen Resolution 800 X 600
 
- 16MB memory or above
 
- 20MB or more hard disk space available
 
- An internet connection
 
 
 
 
 
- Mac
 If you have a Mac, this is what you'll need: 
 
 
- Mac OS 8 or higher Operating System
 
- Power PC processor or higher
 
- Optimal Screen Resolution 800 X 600
 
- 16MB memory or above
 
- 20MB or more hard disk space available
 
- An internet connection
 Please note that unfortunately most versions of AOL for the Macintosh 
 cannot connect to Citibank Internet Banking. To use an AOL connection 
 you will need Netscape Navigator 4.0 or above - not the AOL browser. 
 
 
 
 
 
- Internet access (either at home or at work) 
 
 
 
- 
 
Netscape 
 You will need the international version of Netscape Navigator/Communicator 
 4.0 or above. If in doubt, click Browser 
 Check
 
 
 
- 
 
Microsoft Internet Explorer 
 You will need the international version of Microsoft Internet Explorer 
 4.0. If in doubt, click Browser 
 Check
 
 
- A Citibank Internet Banking Identification Number (IBID) 
 
 
 
 
For more information on any of these, simply click on the appropriate 
 link. 
 
If you need further help with Internet Banking please call call CitiPhone 
 Banking, our customer helpline, free on 0800 00 55 00.
 
 
 
Back to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further 
 information 
 
 
Do you have a query we were not able to help you with here? Why not have 
 a quick look at FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions). 
 Alternatively you can use our Feedback 
 Form. 
 
We are always keen to hear from our customers, whatever their comments 
 or queries. That way we can improve our service and make sure it always 
 meets your needs. 
 
Back to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If you haven't seen the Demo 
 yet, do take a look. It shows you how simple and convenient Citibank Internet 
 Banking is. And if you've any questions, why not click on 
 FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions)? 
	 
