
The Co-operative Bank plc
 
The Banking Code
 
 
	
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
The Banking Code is a voluntary code followed by banks and building societies card issuers in their relations with personal customers in the United Kingdom. It sets standards of good banking practice which are followed as a minimum by those organisations subscribing to it.
As a voluntary Code, it allows market forces to operate to encourage higher standards for the benefit of customers.
The Code is drawn up in consultation with bank, building society and card issuers, independent consumer groups and industry watchdogs and is written in plain, easy to understand language.
The Code first came into effect on 16th March 1992, followed by reviews in March 1994, July 1997 and March 1998. The latest revision is effective from 1st January 2001. 
The aim of the revised Code is to improve standards of service for personal customers and ensure that they have the best possible information available in order to choose whether to keep or move their account when conditions change. 
As subscribers to the Banking Code we promise to:
	
- act fairly and reasonably in all our dealings with customers;
	
- make sure that all services and products meet this Code, even if they have their own terms and conditions.
	
- give the customer information on our services and products in plain language and offer help if there is any aspect which they do not understand;
	
- help the customer to understand the financial implications of our products and services, how they work, and help them to choose the one that meets their needs;
	
- have secure and reliable banking and payment systems;
	
- make sure that the procedures our staff follow reflect the commitments set out in this Code;
	
- consider cases of financial difficulty sympathetically and positively;
	
- if things go wrong, correct mistakes, tell you how to make a complaint and handle the complaint quickly;
	
- make sure that all products and services meet relevant laws and regulations including those relating to discrimination;
	
- tell the customer if we offer products and services in more than one way (eg, on our internet sites, over the phone, or on posters in branches and so on) and tell the customer how to find more (customer care newsletter).
	 
	 
	
Monitoring & compliance with The Code
The purpose of the Code is to give customers the additional comfort and protection of dealing with banks and building societies which subscribe to it. It is in your interests to ask the institution you deal with whether or not it subscribes to this code. 
The Co-operative Bank subscribes to the Code and has a 'Code Compliance Officer' with responsibility for monitoring its compliance with the Code. We complete a "Statement of Compliance" every year which is signed by our Chief Executive and sent to the Banking Code Standards Board. 
The Code is monitored by the Banking Code Standards Board which is comprised of representatives from the banks, building societies and independent consumer organisations. 
Complaints concerning the general operation of the Code can be made to the following address:
Banking Code Standards Board,
33 St.James's Square
London 
SW1Y 4JS
www.bankingcode.org.uk
How to obtain a copy of The Code
Copies of the Banking Code are available from Telephone Banking on 08457 212 212.
Alternatively, call in and ask for a copy at any of our branches or any other member Bank, Building Society or Card Issuer.
Other than this copies can be obtained from:
The British Bankers' Association,
Pinners Hall,	
105-108 Old Broad Street, 	
London EC2N 1EX.
www.bba.org.uk
Large print, Welsh and Braille copies of the Banking Code are available on request from the British Bankers' Association.
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
	
 
