 
Hampshire Trust - Home Page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This page uses frames, but your browser doesn't support them.
 
 
HT-General-closed
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
Hampshire Trust Top Banner
Hampshire Trust - About Hampshire Trust
 
 
 
 
Hampshire Trust is an independent bank providing Private Banking
 services from its headquarters in the market town of Fareham.
The Bank's premises, Fareham House,
 are situated in the historic High Street in Fareham, which is part of the Old
 Town. Fareham House is a Georgian building sympathetically restored and
 refurbished yet incorporating the latest technology. The building reflects perfectly
 the Bank's profile - a combination of traditional service and professionalism with the
 ability to respond at speed and with flexibility to the ever increasing demands of the
 developing banking environment.
 
The Bank's staff is a blend
 of well respected and highly qualified bankers and other professionals, some of whom are
 accountants or lawyers. The Bank is thus able to offer a variety and depth of
 service to customers, banks and other professionals. The Bank's services include the
 provision of attractive and competitive deposit and savings accounts, flexible and
 imaginative secured lending, factoring and other private banking facilities and
 operations which are offered throughout the United Kingdom. The Bank has developed a Professional
 Services division which provides banking, accounting and legal advice to other
 professionals as well as banking and financial institutions.
 
Quality of service combined
 with professionalism and efficiency has been the cornerstone of the Bank's success and
 development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 Page 
 Deposits
 and Savings 
 Commercial
 Loans 
 Factoring 
 Location 
 Senior
 Management 
 
 
 
Finance available for Business
Users | Privacy Policy
Hampshire Trust Plc,
Fareham House,
69 High Street,
Fareham,
Hampshire,
PO16
7BB.
Telephone: (01329) 234294
Facsimile: (01329) 285910
email: enquiries@hampshire-trust.co.uk
- ---
 
 
 
 
 Website:
 Designed and managed by
 Nick Hillman of ICE Solutions Ltd.
 nhillman@ice-group.com 
 
 
 
