
BRISTOL & WEST
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
As financial organisations offer an increasing number of services, Bristol & 
West is specialising in only the more important financial matters: mortgages, savings and investments.
The ability to deliver specialist service requires a strong well established organisation
behind it and as you can see from the table below, Bristol & West is such an organisation.
For full details of our Annual Report and Accounts click here
Bristol & West - Our Strategy
Because we specialise in mortgages, savings and investments, we don't offer services and accounts outside of these categories. By specialising in the more important financial matters we can be more responsive to peoples' needs and offer our customers the opportunity to deal with us in the way that they find most convenient.
This is demonstrated by our specialist sales and service teams, who ensure that the highest levels of customer service are provided by phone, post, Internet and in person. So if you want to deal with the specialists use the Bristol & West web site to see how we can help you with your mortgages, savings and investments needs.
A Helping Hand - How to Complain
If you have a complaint about our service, please tell us. We want to put things right - first time. To find out more about Bristol & West’s complaints procedure click here.
Bank of Ireland
On 28th July 1997 Bristol & West became part of the Bank of Ireland Group. This merger has added additional strength and support provided by the combination of two established and respected financial institutions and has created a competitive force in British financial services.
If you are a Bristol & West Preference Share holder please click here for more information.
If you would like to know more about Bristol & West, it's performance and strategy for the future
click here.
Bristol West International
Bristol & West International Limited (BWI) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bristol & West, and is based in the Channel Island of Guernsey. BWI has been in operation since 1990 providing a specialist mortgages, savings and investments service to UK expatriates, non-UK residents, foreign nationals and Channel Islands residents.
Bristol & West Professional and Corporate Business
Bristol & West Professional & Corporate Business (PCB) are specialists in managing client and corporate funds. They supply financial products and services to professional firms, advisers, and various corporate customers, such as leading firms of solicitors, stockbrokers, accountants and fund/asset managers as well as charities, schools and companies.
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
