
Insurance at Alliance & Leicester plc
	
	
	
 
 
 
Your browser doesn't support scripts, so some areas of this site will not work as intended. For maximum benefit from this site we suggest you use a JavaScript-enabled browser.
 
 
Home > Insurance
 How can I get the cover I need without any hassle?
Whatever insurance needs you have, Alliance and Leicester offers straightforward 
 protection that¹s quick and easy to arrange
 
 
 
 
 
Home Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- We offer various product options for buildings and contents cover to meet your individual needs
 
- If you do need to make a claim, our high service standards make it 
 easy and hassle-free 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Life & Critical Illness Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Gives a lump sum payment if you suffer a serious illness or die during the policy term
 
- Takes the financial pressure off your family should anything happen 
 to you 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Motor Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Easy-to-arrange cover that offers a comprehensive range of benefits
 
- Competitive rates and specially negotiated discounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Travel Insurance free with the Premier Current Account
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Comprehensive annual cover for wherever and whenever you travel
 
- Optional upgrades at a charge available for your family and/or winter 
 sports cover
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Card Protection Plan Plus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Protect all your cards against loss, theft and much more
 
 
 
 
Alliance & Leicester plc are members of the General Insurance Standards 
Council (GISC) and adhere to the GISC Code for the selling of general insurance. 
A leaflet giving further information on the Code is available on request or details 
may be viewed on the GISC website: www.gisc.co.uk.
 Claims will be handled in accordance with the Association of British Insurers 
 Claims Code. A copy of this can be supplied by us on request.
The content of this website and the products and services featured are only directed at and are only available to residents of the United Kingdom. The contents of this website shall be governed and construed in accordance with English law.
By accessing and using this website you are agreeing to our Conditions of Use and our Privacy Statement.
For security and training purposes telephone calls may be recorded/monitored.
 
Alliance & Leicester plc. Registered Office: Carlton Park, 
 Narborough, Leicester LE19 0AL. Company Number: 3263713. Registered in England.
Copyright© Alliance & Leicester plc. All rights reserved.
	
	
	
 
Internet Banking
Mortgages
Personal Loans
Motor Finance
Current Accounts
Savings
Credit Cards
Investments
Insurance
Moving Home
Home Improvements
Offshore Banking
Share Dealing
Business Finance
Affiliate Programme
Other Services
 
	
 
Contact Us |
About Us |
Legals |
FAQ |
Site Index |
Accessibility
 
Apply Now 
 
- Household 
 Information Pack
 
- Life 
 & Critical Illness Application Pack
Insurance Options
 
 
- Household
 
- Life 
 & Critical Illness
 
- Motor
 
- Travel 
 Insurance for Premier Current Account Holders
 
- Card 
 Protection Plan Plus
 
 
Useful Links
 
 
 
- Card 
 Protection Plan Plus
 
- Travel 
 Money
 
- Mortgage 
 Related Insurance
 
- Branch 
 Locator
 
 
Insurance Home
 
 
 
 
