
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Short Term 
 
	 
 
 Longer Term 
 
	
	
	 
	 
	 Individual Savings Account 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal 
 > Savings > Longer Term
 
Savings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
Longer Term
	
 Longer term savings.
 
If you don't need 
 to get at your savings straightaway, you may want to consider our 
 Notice Account options and enjoy the benefits of our attractive 
 interest rates.With this kind of account you can leave your savings 
 to grow, adding to them whenever you want. However, you have the 
 reassurance that if you need money unexpectedly, you can access 
 your savings whenever you want. All you will lose is the equivalent 
 of interest on the notice period of your account. 
 
Depending on how 
 comfortable you feel about saving over longer periods of time, you 
 can choose from one-month, three-month and six-month notice periods. 
 Simply work out how much you can afford to save, and how quickly 
 you might need it. Remember that the less access you have to the 
 money in your account, the higher the rate we can offer you - and 
 the more interest it will earn. 
 
Like all our savings accounts, the interest 
 is tiered - so when the balance reaches the next tier, the new rate 
 covers the total amount. If you prefer, your interest can be paid 
 directly into another Yorkshire Bank account, giving you a regular 
 income without touching your initial capital. 
 
 
- 
 
Three Month Premium 
 
To open a Three Month Premium Account, all 
 you need is an initial investment of £500, or, even easier, 
 a monthly standing order of £50. Your interest is calculated 
 twice a year, so you will earn interest on your interest as well 
 as your original amount. 
 
Should you need to access your money in a hurry, 
 you can make one penalty-free instant access withdrawal of up to 
 £500 a month -and any additional withdrawals only require three 
 months' notice. And don't worry, if you require your money urgently, 
 you may withdraw it without notice, only losing the equivalent of 
 three months' interest.
 
You may need 
 to access your money sooner but still want the benefits of a 
 longer term savings account. Our One Month Premium account has 
 all the benefits of our Three Month account except a monthly 
 income option. So while you still benefit from earning interest 
 you also have access sooner. 
 
- 
Premium Plus Account
 
If you have 
 a larger sum to put away, a Premium Plus Account may be right 
 for you. With a minimum investment of £5,000, you can 
 commit to a six-month notice period and earn an attractive 
 rate of interest which is paid annually. 
 
Six months 
 can be a long time - so we've included the option of one free 
 instant access withdrawal a year, in case you need cash unexpectedly. 
 Should you need it, you can withdraw up to a quarter of your 
 balance, excluding any accrued interest. 
 
Additional withdrawals require six months' 
 notice, and as with all our notice accounts, you always have the 
 option to withdraw your money without notice.All you will lose is 
 the equivalent of six months' interest.
 
- 
Monthly Income Interest Option.
 
For the Three Month and Premium Plus Account 
 there is an interest option worth considering. If you would like 
 some extra cash on hand every month, or require your savings to 
 provide additional income, you can choose our monthly income option, 
 where interest is paid into your account on a monthly basis. The 
 interest you have earned can be transferred directly into your regular 
 bank account, on the 28th day of each month for the Three Month 
 and the 4th of each month on the Premium Plus Account.Without touching 
 your original capital you can benefit from your savings. 
 
 
 
Guaranteed interest.
 
If you feel you don't need access to your 
 money - and are able to put your money away for longer - our Term 
 Deposits offer great rewards. Because the interest you earn is 
 fixed for the full period, you know exactly how much you'll get 
 at the end of the term - which means that you can plan ahead with 
 complete confidence. 
 
There's more than just an attractive rate 
 to discover with a Yorkshire Bank Term Deposit. To start, you 
 have a range of term lengths between 3, 6, 12 and 18 months to 
 choose from, so you decide how long you want to save for. Then 
 there's the promise that the rate of interest you're offered when 
 you open the account, will be the rate you get for the full term 
 your money is deposited. So, no matter what happens to interest 
 rates, you'll know exactly how much you will receive and when. 
 
 
What's more, you can open a Term Deposit 
 with anything from £2,000 to a maximum of £250,000. During the 
 Fixed Term you may only make one withdrawal which must be for 
 the whole balance in your account. Such withdrawals will be subject 
 to a charge and the stated return will not be achieved. 
 
If you would like to take advantage of everything 
 the account has to offer, simply ask at any branch for full details, 
 or call free anytime from 8am to 8pm Monday to Friday on 0800-0281806. 
 But don 't leave it too long. The sooner you start seeing guaranteed 
 returns on your savings, the better. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
