
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Internet Sharedealing 
	
	
	
	 Trade
	 Knowledge Centre
	 User Guide
	 Charges
	 Nominee Service
	 Technical Requirements
	 Register
	 FAQ
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	In association with Stocktrade&#153;
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	In association with Stocktrade&#153; 
	 
	 Trade 
	
	
	
	Through the combined power of your Citibank Sterling Current Account and Citibank Internet Banking 
 and our partnership with Stocktrade Ltd, you can place orders to buy and sell stocks and shares 
 in over 2300 companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
 
 This Citibank Internet Sharedealing Service offers you
 
	
- On-line real-time price quotes 
	
- FREE access to research, company news, comparison graphs, 
 broker accounts and company reports for the active trader
 
- Real-time portfolio valuation 
 
- Immediate on-line confirmation of trade 
 
- Sterling T +1 Settlement 
 
- Proceeds from sell transactions immediately available for re-investment 
 
- Attractive rates of interest for investment funds on deposit 
 
- Automated administration - eliminates paperwork, saving you time 
 
 
- Nominee Service
	
 
	
 
 
	 Register 
	 Trade 
	 Knowledge Centre 
	
	
	
	
	
	To get started you will need:
	
	
	
- A Citibank Sterling Current Account and Internet Banking. 
	
- Your Citibank Internet Sharedealing username which you will have received by email. 
 
- Your password which you will have received by post. 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
 Please Note: 
 
 
 If you are a Citibank UK customer but do not have a Citibank Sterling Current Account:
	
	
- Call CitiPhone Banking on 0800 00 55 00 to 
	open a Sterling Current Account, or 
	
- Go to 'open a new account' on 
	Citibank Internet Banking. 
	(this is within the customer services 
	screen on Citibank Internet Banking).
	
	
	If you are a Citibank UK customer but do not have Citibank Internet Banking: 
	
	
	
- Call CitiPhone Banking on 0800 00 55 00 
	to order your personal IBID (Internet Banking Identification Number).
	
	
	If you are not a Citibank UK customer apply for a Citibank Sterling Current Account first. 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 You're all set! As a Citibank Internet Sharedealing customer, you can begin placing orders 
	to buy and sell stocks and shares on-line immediately. Click here to Trade.
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	Please note:
	
	
	If you only have your username by email, please allow 5 days for your password to reach you 
	by post.
	
	Or, if you have recently registered, 	please allow 10 days for your application to be processed.
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	View our Commission Information.
	
	
	
	Stocktrade&#153; is part of the Brewin Dolphin group regulated 
	by the SFA. This service, in association with Stocktrade&#153;, 
	allows you to buy and sell over 2300 shares quoted 
	on the London Stock Exchange.
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	RELATED LINKS 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Click here for the up to the minute news and market information. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Citibank provides all the background you need for making informed investments. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 Examine the present then prepare for the future. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Make the most of your investment decisions. Click here for access to a wealth of up to the minute market information. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Why not consult our Standard & Poor's tutorials for an independent view of the investments marketplace. 
	
	
	
	 More Info
	 
	
	
	
	
 
	 
	
