
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	ISA 
	
	
	
	
	 Open an ISA account
	 Manage Your ISA
	 What is an ISA ?
	 Why Citibank ?
	 Who is in it ?
 Need 
 help ? 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
Maxis and Minis back in vogue 
 
The days of the Maxi and Mini are back - - but 
 this time round they are investment choices instead 
 of fashion styles. Each tax year you can select 
 the Maxi ISA and enjoy more flexibility on stocks 
 and shares or the Mini ISA and have a broader 
 choice of managers for your cash, insurance and 
 equity investments. 
 
Article Overview:
 
 
- The major differences 
 
 
- The Maxi ISA
 
- The Mini ISA
 
 
 
- Limits on transfers
 
- Points to remember 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The major differences 
 
 
THE MAXI ISA (limit up to £7,000 per tax 
 year) allows you to invest in all the three investment 
 elements of an ISA. There are limits of £3,000 
 for the cash element and £1,000 for the life insurance 
 element but the stocks and shares element can 
 make up the remainder of the allowance or it can 
 take up the entire £7,000 allowance. This makes 
 the Maxi ISA particularly attractive to investors 
 who want to put emphasis on growth. However, if 
 you choose to use the allowance up on equities 
 you can't invest in the other two elements. And 
 you are only allowed to choose one company to 
 provide your Maxi ISA in any tax year. 
 
THE MINI ISA allows you to invest in all 
 three categories of investment - and with more 
 than one manager. In theory you can have a cash 
 Mini ISA with your Building Society (maximum £3,000), 
 your life assurance Mini ISA with a life company 
 (maximum £1,000) and a stocks and shares Mini 
 ISA with a fund provider (maximum £3,000). 
 Back to top
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limits on transfers 
 
 Investors should realise that they cannot transfer 
 between one investment category and another. Investments 
 in a life insurance component cannot be moved 
 into stocks and shares, even within the same Maxi 
 ISA. And those investors that have invested in 
 a Maxi ISA in one tax year cannot then invest 
 in a Mini ISA in the same tax year. Investors 
 who want to invest the current maximum £7,000 
 allowed in stocks and shares must choose the Maxi 
 ISA. In a Maxi ISA, you can choose not to invest 
 in the cash or life insurance elements and, instead, 
 add those allowances on to the stocks and shares 
 quota. It is not possible to achieve a £7,000 
 investment in equities through choosing a stocks 
 and shares Mini ISA because the maximum investment 
 in that category is £3,000. 
 
Maxis ISAs and Mini ISAs: a comparison Maxis 
 Minis Annual £7,000 in shares £3,000 in cash Limits 
 Or £3,000 in shares £3,000 in shares & £1,000 
 in insurance £3,000 in cash & £1,000 in insurance 
 Managers One only each tax year Up to three each 
 tax year. 
 Back to top
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Points to remember 
 
 
 
 
 
- With the Mini ISA you can choose to vary the 
 managers selected for the three different categories 
 of investment: cash, equities and insurance. 
 
 
- The Maxi ISA investment rules are more flexible. 
 Any part of your annual allowance that is not 
 used in the cash or life insurance elements 
 can be invested in stocks and shares up to the 
 current maximum allowance of £7,000 in a single 
 tax year. 
 
- Investors who want to invest the current 
 tax yearly maximum £7,000 allowed in stocks 
 and shares must choose the Maxi ISA. They cannot 
 achieve their aim with a Mini ISA because its 
 annual limit for stocks and shares is £3,000. 
 
 
- Investors that have invested in a Maxi ISA 
 in any single tax year cannot then invest in 
 a Mini ISA in the same tax year. 
 
- Over the years investors can combine the 
 advantages of Mini ISAs and Maxi ISAs. One year 
 can be used to concentrate on diversifying manager 
 skills through a Mini ISA and another year can 
 concentrate on weighting the portfolio with 
 more equities and growth potential through a 
 Maxi ISA. 
 
 Back to top
 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
The Fidelity FundsNetwork is an 'investment supermarket'. 
 More Info
Charges can be complex as they vary from fund to fund and from provider to provider.
 More Info
RELATED LINKS
	 
Click here for the up to the minute news and market information.
 More Info
	
	 
Citibank provides all the background you need for making informed investments.
 More Info
	 
Examine the present then prepare for the future.
 More Info
	 
Why not consult our Standard & Poor's tutorials for an independent view of the investments marketplace.
 More Info
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
 Citi.com 
	
	
	
	Issued by Citibank International plc, which is regulated by FSA in the conduct of its investment business directed at UK Residents. 
	Fidelity ISA introduced by Citibank, warnings
	 and 
	terms and conditions 
	Terms, conditions, caveats and small print 
	Copyright © 2001 Citicorp 
 This site is intended for UK residents 
	 
 
