
 
 
HSBC - Stakeholder Pensions
 
"100%">
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Setting 
 up a
 Stakeholder
 Pension online 
 
 
 
 I am self-employed 
 
 
 
 I 
 am employed 
 
 
 
 I 
 am a non-earner 
 
 
 
 Investment 
 choice calculator 
 
 
 
 Apply 
 for a Stakeholder Pension online 
 
 
 
 Jargon 
 buster 
 
 
 
 Important 
 notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How do I set up a Stakeholder Pension?
 
 
 
 
We are offering our Stakeholder Pension product 
 to you online. You can apply for and maintain your Stakeholder 
 Pension from anywhere you can access a computer that has internet 
 connection, by following the step-by-step guide on this page. 
 If you want to print it out, just click on the 'print' icon 
 above.
 
You will receive free access to our Personal 
 Internet Banking service once you have completed the online 
 application for our Stakeholder Pension. Personal Internet 
 Banking will enable you to manage your HSBC Stakeholder Pension 
 online. If you are an existing HSBC customer, you can also 
 manage all your other HSBC products via this service (e.g. 
 bank accounts, credit cards etc).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE FOR EMPLOYEES:
 
You should only apply for a Stakeholder Pension using 
 this site if you are doing so independently of your 
 employer, or if you are self-employed or not employed. 
 
 
If your employer is offering a Stakeholder Pension 
 through HSBC you do not need to do anything. Your 
 employer will process your membership and you will 
 receive notification that your Stakeholder Pension 
 has commenced as well as registration to our Personal 
 Internet Banking service. You will be able to access 
 your Stakeholder Pension details using this service. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Am I eligible for a Stakeholder Pension?
 To establish whether you are able to have a Stakeholder 
 Pension, please click here.
 
What decisions will I need to make if I apply 
 for a Stakeholder Pension?
 Before applying for our Stakeholder Pension, 
 you will need to have made the following decisions:
 
If you have not already done so, you should use the 
 Decision Trees, which will help you make an informed decision about 
 whether to take out a Stakeholder Pension. Click 
 here to go to our Decision Tree information page.
 
 
- Retirement age 
 - you will need to specify a standard retirement age for your 
 Stakeholder Pension plan - this could be any age between 50 and 
 75 years.
 
 
 
 
- Contribution amount 
 - you will need to decide how much you wish to contribute to your 
 Stakeholder Pension plan. This can be a percentage of your earnings, 
 or a specified amount.
 
 
 
- Contribution frequency 
 - you can choose how often you want to make payments to your Stakeholder 
 Pension plan. For example, monthly, six monthly or annually.
 
 
 
- Fund choice 
 - you can choose from eight available funds to invest your contributions 
 in. There is an investment choice questionnaire to help you. However, 
 if you do not wish to make an investment decision, we will automatically 
 place your contributions into our "default" investment. 
 This means that we will invest your contributions on your behalf.
 
 
To assist you in making these decisions, please use 
 the decision trees. These are accessed by clicking on the "What's 
 right for me" button on the right hand side of this page.
 
You will also need the following information to hand 
 to enable you to complete our application:
 
 
- Your bank details
 
- Your National Insurance number
 
 
 How do I apply for a Stakeholder Pension? 
 Simply click 
 here to proceed to our online application form. Once your application 
 has been accepted we will set you up as a HSBC Personal Internet 
 Banking customer, allowing you to maintain your Stakeholder Pension 
 online. 
 
What happens when my application is accepted?
 We will write to you confirming your application 
 for a Stakeholder Pension has been accepted.
 
You will receive the following information:
 
 
- Personal Internet Banking Logon ID
 
- Security number
 
- Internet access details
 
 
 For security reasons, your security number and Personal 
 Internet Banking Logon ID will be sent separately.
 
 You will also receive a variety of documentation 
 which will include details of your application, the opportunity 
 to cancel your application and other documentation which will highlight 
 the key features and charges associated with your pension.
 
What features are available using the Stakeholder 
 Pensions service?
 Our service includes the following user-friendly 
 features:
 
 
- Ability to view and amend personal/contribution 
 details
 
- Fund valuation
 
- Retirement projections
 
- Choice of investment funds (if required)
 
- Fund switching
 
- Nomination of beneficiaries
 
- Details of past contributions
 
 
What if I have problems setting up my Stakeholder 
 Pension plan?
 To assist your application and the future maintenance 
 of your plan, there is a help facility on each screen, as well as 
 an online user guide. If you require further assistance there is 
 a list of useful contact numbers online.
 
 
 
 Apply 
 for our Stakeholder Pension plan 
 
 
 
We recommend that you read our important notes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
