
Barclays Brochureware
 
 Barclays 
 Home | Legal | Contact 
 Us | About 
 Barclays | Site 
 Map | Useful 
 Info | Toolbox 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home 
 : Openplan : Offset 
 Mortgage
 
 
 
Online Banking : log-in | register
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interested 
 in... 
 
 
 
 Overview 
 
 
 
 Openplan Money Manager 
 
 
 
 Openplan 
 Savings 
 
 
 
 Openplan 
 Offset Mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage Reserve 
 
 
 
 
 Demo 
 
 
 
 How to apply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Look at our... 
 
 
 
 Demos 
 
 
 
 Case studies 
 
 
 
 Questions 
 
 
 
 Interest rates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toolbox... 
 
 
 
 Budget 
 Planner 
 
	 
 
 Product Details 
 
 
 
 Offset 
 Mortgage Calculator 
 
 
 
 Mortgage 
 Quotation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cut 
 years off
 your mortgage by linking 
 your savings with an Openplan Offset Mortgage.
 Find out how 
 to apply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introducing Openplan Offset Mortgage
 
 Now the money in your current account and Openplan Savings 
 Accounts can be used to help repay your mortgage sooner, or 
 reduce your monthly repayments, potentially saving you thousands 
 of pounds in interest. 
 
Openplan Offset Mortgage* works by 'offsetting' the money 
 in your current and savings accounts against the amount you 
 have borrowed for your mortgage. The accounts are not merged, 
 so you don't lose control of your savings. Instead of earning 
 interest on your savings, you reduce the amount of interest 
 you pay on your mortgage.
 
For example, if you had taken out an Openplan Offset mortgage 
 of £87,000 and had a total of £7,000 in your Barclays 
 current account and Openplan Savings Accounts, you would only 
 pay interest on the difference between the two - in this case 
 £80,000. As the interest charged on mortgages is often 
 higher than the amount paid on savings, offsetting could save 
 you thousands of pounds in interest over the course of a mortgage.
 
The Openplan Offset Mortgage loan is a competitive new Woolwich 
 tracker mortgage set at 0.75% over the Barclays Bank Base 
 Rate for the life of the mortgage. 
 How it works 
 
 
- Look at our animated 
 Offset Mortgage demo. 
 
- Read Sarah and Simon's story as an example. 
 
- See how much you could save with our 
Offset 
 Mortgage Calculator.
 
 
Borrowing more cheaply
 The Openplan Offset Mortgage includes a Mortgage Reserve 
 overdraft that enables you to borrow for any purpose at your 
 mortgage rate.
 
Read about Mortgage 
 Reserve 
 
Other mortgage options 
 If you do not want to 
 offset your savings for any reason, then you can consider 
 other options from our range of flexible mortgages which 
 include fixed, capped, discounted rate and other tracker 
 mortgages (subject to availability).You won't be able to offset these but you 
 can make one-off lump sum payments as and when it suits 
 you, and use Money Manager to make regular 
 overpayments **. 
 
See more on flexible 
 mortgages
 
To find out more
See our latest interest rates
 
 How to apply
 
*Offset Mortgage is only available on 
 a new Woolwich Tracker Mortgage through Openplan from Barclays.
 ** Some flexible mortgage products are subject to an early 
 repayment charge and cannot be swept to using Money Manager.
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU 
 DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED 
 ON IT.
 
Woolwich Mortgages are sold and 
 funded by Barclays Bank PLC and the mortgage contract is with 
 Barclays. Written quotations 
 are available on request from Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays 
 Direct Mortgages, PO Box HK 444, Leeds, LS11 8DD. Applies 
 to new Openplan Offset Mortgages from Barclays. A current 
 account is mandatory with these mortgages. Applications 
 subject to status and a minimum age of 18. Mortgages subject 
 to valuation (maximum Loan-to-Value 95%, remortgages 90%, 
 or up to 90% with a Mortgage Reserve). A first charge over 
 your property is required. You are strongly recommended to have 
 life assurance in place to cover the full amount of all sums 
 which you may borrow from us under the facility. The mortgage 
 is available on an interest only and repayment basis. If you 
 have an interest only mortgage, you are strongly recommended 
 to have a suitable repayment vehicle in place (such as an 
 endowment policy, ISA, PEP or Personal Pension Plan) to repay 
 the total amount borrowed. The Offset Mortgage must normally 
 be repaid by the time you retire or reach the age of 65 years, whichever is sooner. Full terms and conditions 
 available on request. 
 
A Mortgage Reserve facility with 
 a new Openplan Offset Mortgage, will allow you to borrow on 
 overdraft at the same rate of interest as your mortgage, and 
 is normally, available where your mortgage is less than 90% 
 of the lower of the Bank's valuation or purchase price of the 
 property, over the same period as your mortgage. Mortgage 
 Reserve is subject to status and is repayable on demand. Interest due on the Mortgage 
 Reserve is charged to the main Offset Mortgage account.
 
Charges and interest rates may 
 vary. Barclays is a responsible lender and when considering 
 your application for borrowing, your financial circumstances 
 will be appraised. And remember, if you should run into difficulty, 
 please contact us immediately.
 
Barclays Bank PLC represents only 
 the Legal & General Marketing Group of companies for life 
 assurance, pensions and unit trusts, members of which are 
 regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Barclays Bank 
 PLC. Registered Number 1026167, Registered Office. 54 Lombard 
 Street, London, EC3P 3AH. Barclays Bank PLC is covered by 
 the Financial Ombudsman Service. Woolwich plc is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC
 
Barclays Bank PLC and Woolwich 
 plc adhere to the principles of The Mortgage and Banking Codes. 
 Copies of the Codes are available on request. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
