
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your 
 Home > Rapid Repay > Rapid Repay Benefits
 
Your Home
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapid Repay Benefits
 
 
- Saving time and money - Rapid Repay will help to ensure that you save 
 money in interest costs. By paying your salary and any other spare cash directly into your Rapid Repay Account 
 you will immediately reduce your outstanding balance by the amount deposited. If you leave as much as possible 
 in your account for as long as possible, you will maintain this lower balance on an ongoing basis. You could 
 potentially save thousands in interest costs and reduce the time it takes to repay your loan, when compared 
 with our 25 year Standard Repayment Home Loan with a regular monthly payment.
 
 
 
- Safety - Rapid Repay operates within an agreed safety limit which is 
 reduced each month to ensure that your Facility is repaid within the agreed term. 
 
 
 
- Flexibility - Rapid Repay is so flexible that you can make full use 
 of your income, repay more through effective budgeting and benefit from lower interest rates by having all 
 your borrowing in one account.
 
 
 
- Easy access - Rapid Repay operates as your current account, so you 
 can withdraw money directly at any time, up to your Safety Limit.
 
 
 
- Equity Release - the main purpose of Rapid Repay is the purchase of 
 your home however any surplus between the cost of your property and the Safety Limit agreed with the Bank 
 (which can be up to a maximum loan to valuation limit of 90%), can be used as a personal cash reserve that 
 is continuously available to you, without the need to refer to the Bank.
 
 
 
- Tax efficiency - With a conventional savings account, any interest 
 that you earn could be subject to tax of up to 40% but you do not have to pay tax on the interest saved with 
 Rapid Repay.
 
 
 
- Control - Detailed monthly statements and annual reviews help you to 
 keep track of your transactions as well as your progress in repaying your Rapid Repay Facility.
 
 
 
- Portability - If you move house, you can take your Rapid Repay Facility 
 with you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rapid Repay 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Benefits 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Personal Illustration 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Downloads 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Important Information 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 What the Press are saying 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
