
Sainsbury's Bank - Mortgages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 apply now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 mortgage expert 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay discount mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 fixed rate mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy-to-Let mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 some definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Advance 
 The term given to the mortgage loan . 
 
 
 
 
 
 Annuity mortgage 
 See capital and interest mortgage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 APR 
 The APR represents the total amount of interest paid
 on a loan, added to any other charges which the borrower has to meet.
 This total is divided by the number of years the mortgage will last
 for to give the amount paid each year. The amount is then converted
 into a percentage of the average loan over the mortgage period, to
 give the annual percentage rate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Arrangement fee 
 The fee for applying for a mortgage. This is usually
 non-refundable, even if the bank rejects your application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Base Rate 
 The Base Rate set by the Bank of England acts as the
 benchmark for the interest rates of high street banks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bridging Loan 
 Short-term loan to bridge the gap between the purchase
 of a new property and the sale of the old. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buyer's report 
 Surveyor's report on a property - less detailed than
 a structural survey, but covering more than the lender's valuation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Capital 
 The amount of the loan on which interest is calculated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Capital & Interest Mortgage 
 With this type of mortgage the monthly repayment includes
 an element of the capital sum borrowed in addition to the interest
 charged. In the early years of the mortgage the majority of the monthly
 repayment consists of interest with only a small part repaying the
 capital. However, as the debt gradually reduces the element of capital
 increases and the interest element reduces, so although the monthly
 repayment stays the same (assuming interest rate doesn't change) the
 debt starts to reduce more quickly as the term of the mortgage progresses.
 On a 25 year term mortgage it would not be unusual to still owe over
 50% of the original debt after the first 15 years. Providing the correct
 monthly repayments are made on their due dates this mortgage will
 guarantee to repay the total mortgage debt at the end of the mortgage
 term. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Capital Gain 
 An increase in the value of a capital asset (either
 investment or real estate). The gain is not realized until the asset
 is sold for more than the original purchase price. A capital gain
 may be short-term (one year or less) or long-term (more than one year)
 and must be claimed on income taxes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chain 
 This occurs when the seller needs the sale of their
 house to go through before they can complete the purchase of another
 property. The same situation may exist for others in the chain. As
 a result, the whole chain can collapse if one link breaks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Completion 
 The final legal transfer of ownership. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Conclusion of Missives 
 The point when the buyer and seller are legally bound.
 Applicable only in Scotland. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contract 
 The legal agreement between the seller and buyer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Conveyancing 
 The legal work involved in buying a home. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Disbursements 
 These are expenses paid by the solicitor on behalf of
 the purchaser. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Endowment Mortgage 
 This type of mortgage combines monthly payments into
 a life assurance and an investment plan that will repay the mortgage
 at the end of the agreed period, or in the event of the borrower's
 death. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity 
 The difference between the value of the property and
 the loans secured against it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estate Agent 
 Property agents who link up buyers and sellers. Estate
 Agents advertise houses & arrange viewings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Exchange of contracts 
 The point when buyer and seller are legally bound. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Freehold (not Scotland) 
 Ownership of the property and land. Compare with Leasehold. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ground rent 
 Annual charge payable by leaseholders to the freeholder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Loan to Value Access Fee 
 A fee that may be charged when more than 90% of the
 property value is borrowed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home Loan Upper Limit 
 A precondition for choosing any of the options with
 a flexipay mortgage - equal to the original amount you borrowed plus
 5% of the value of your property. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interest only mortgage 
 Payments are used to pay just the interest. Because
 payments only cover the interest, the balance is not reduced, and
 the full capital amount has to be paid off at the end of the agreed
 period. An interest only mortgage is usually supported by payments
 into an endowment policy, a pension plan or some other investment
 scheme, such as an ISA so that you can pay off the balance at the
 end. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Registry fee 
 Annual charge payable by leaseholders to the freeholder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Leasehold 
 Ownership of the property but not the land on which
 it's built. This means that when the lease expires, the property reverts
 to the freeholder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lender's valuation 
 A valuation of the proposed property carried out by
 the bank before agreeing to give out a mortgage. This is only a valuation
 survey. A separate full structural survey should be arranged by the
 buyer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 LTV (loan-to-value) 
 A percentage that shows the size of mortgage compared
 with the value of the house. For example, House Value=£100,000, Mortgage
 Size=£90,000. Loan-to-Value=90%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Missives 
 The legal agreement between seller and buyer. Applicable
 only in Scotland. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage 
 A long term loan to fund the buying of a property. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage term 
 The length of time over which the mortgage loan is repaid. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recording dues 
 Fee paid to the Land Registry to register ownership
 of a property. Applicable only in Scotland. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Redemption 
 The full repayment of the mortgage loan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Redemption statement 
 A statement supplied by your mortgage provider telling
 you how much you would have to pay today to clear your mortgage today. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Repayment Mortgage 
 See capital and interest mortgage, it's the same thing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stamp duty 
 A tax on the purchase of a property worth more than
 £60,000. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Structural survey 
 Full inspection of the property by a surveyor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Title 
 The right of ownership and the documents proving it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Valuation 
 Inspection of property to ensure that it is suitable
 for a mortgage. 
 
 
 
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS
 ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
