Bank of Scotland
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	home >
	specialist funding solutions >
	integrated finance 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Home 
	
	
	Relationship	Banking 
	
	
	Corporate Banking 
Products 
	
	
	Specialist Funding 
Solutions 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Structured Finance 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Integrated Finance 
	
	
	
	
	Recent Deals 
	
	
	
	
	Non Executive Director
Programme 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Joint Ventures 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Project Finance 
	
	
	 
	Equity 
	
	
	 
	Infrastructure Finance 
	
	
	 
	Housing Finance 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	International 
	
	
	Corporate Finance
 Newsletter 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
Bank of Scotland has always placed a strong emphasis on partnerships and long term relationships. Building on its position as a leading provider of senior debt for MBOs, the Bank launched Integrated Finance in early 2000.
Integrated Finance was introduced to facilitate management buy-outs and to provide acquisition or development finance to companies with either modest growth projections or no planned exit strategy, which may make them unattractive to traditional private equity investors.
Management Buy-Outs
The Integrated Finance team provides funding solutions for corporates, business owners and private equity houses seeking full or partial exits from quality, cash generative businesses. The funding packages delivered by Integrated Finance allow incumbent management teams to acquire businesses from such vendors. The funding packages are structured for long term running yield rather than short to medium term equity appreciation and this approach enables management teams to obtain both equity and operational control, thereby leaving any exit decision in their hands.
Acquisition and Development Funding
When a company's acquisition or development funding requirements cannot be met from traditional funding sources, Integrated Finance can provide a solution. With its focus on long term running yield, Integrated Finance provides management teams with the capital base to build value in a business without the pressures of delivering rapid growth or an early equity return for shareholders.
The 30-strong Integrated Finance team structures flexible debt packages, typically of between £10million and £50 million, using a mix of senior debt, mezzanine debt, loan stock and equity. These funding packages are aimed at high quality, cash generative businesses, ideally with a low capital spend.
The Integrated Finance product can be applied in a number of different situations, including:
	
	 
	Primary management buy-outs 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Secondary management buy-outs 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Family/succession buy-outs 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Acquisition finance 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Development finance 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Public to privates 
	
	
	 
	
For details of some of our completed deals, please click here.
Contact our Integrated Finance team for more information.
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Relationship Banking
	Ongoing support for your company 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Joint Ventures
	Strategic alliances with key customers 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Contact us: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Offices and contacts 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Email 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Other Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	HBOS plc Group Info 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Business Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Treasury Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	EURO Services 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
