
Northern Rock - Mortgage product Range
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 please read 
 
 
 
 
Get up to £1,000 to help with the cost of moving home
(excluding HERM, CAT Standard and Buy to Let products)
 
FLEXIBLE PRODUCTS
 
 
- Together
 A fully flexible 
 mortgage product with a built in unsecured cash reserve to take your 
 total borrowing up to 125% of your property's value (maximum unsecured 
 cash reserve is 30% or £30,000), all at one competitive rate 
 
- Together 
 Connections
 A mortgage with all 
 of the features of our standard together mortgage plus you can now 
 connect a Savings or Current Account. 
 
- Flexible 
 Fixed Rates and Capped Rates 
 Our Flexible mortgage products provide you with the 
 flexibility to repay the way you want. You have the freedom to overpay, 
 underpay and take payment holidays. 
 
 
 New Feature 
 
 At the same time that you apply for a flexible fixed or flexible 
 capped product we will consider arranging a fully flexible unsecured 
 cash reserve to take your total borrowing up to 100% of the 
 lower of either the value or purchase price of the property, subject 
 to a maximum unsecured credit facility of £10,000 and a minimum 
 of £1,000. This is a new addition to our product range.
 
 
 
- CAT 
 Standard Mortgage
 A mortgage that reflects 
 the government's initiative on transparent Charges, easy Access 
 and fair Terms.
 For more information on Northern Rock's CAT Standard Mortgage please 
 call 0845 605 0500.
 
 
STANDARD PRODUCTS
 
 
- Fixed Rate Mortgages
 Avoid the uncertainty 
 of possible future mortgage interest rate changes by fixing the interest 
 rate that will apply to your mortgage for a set period of time. 
 
- Cashback Mortgages
 Receive a substantial 
 lump sum payment from us when your mortgage completes. 
 
- Stepped Discounted Rate Mortgages
 Receive a stepped 
 discount off our Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate until 
 specified dates in the future.
 
 
- Home Equity Release Mortgages (HERM)
 Think of the Home Equity Release Mortgage as a long-term loan, secured 
 against the value of your property, which you can use for any legal 
 purpose. Only available to customers aged 60 and over. 
 
 
BUY TO LET
 
If you are buying 
 a new property to rent out or want to remortgage an existing property 
 to rent out we have a choice of mortgages designed specifically to help 
 you.
 
 
- Fixed Rates
 Avoid the uncertainty of possible future mortgage interest rate changes by fixing the interest rate that will apply to your mortgage for a set period of time. 
 
- Tracker Mortgage
 A mortgage that tracks the Bank of England base mortgage rate for a set period of time, so any change in the Bank of England rate will be reflected on your mortgage. 
 
 
EXCITING 
 OFFERS
 
 
- Help 
 with Costs Option
 Customers (with the exception of HERM, Buy to Let and CAT Standard 
 customers) can get 
 up to £1,000 to help with the cost of moving home
 
 
- Self 
 Certification on Loans up to 75% LTV
 We will no longer require customers to provide us (with the exception 
 of HERM, Buy to Let, together and together connections 
 customers) with P60's, wage slips, mortgage statements, bank statements, 
 lender/landlord/employee references and self-employed accounts for 
 properties valued at £100,000 and above to a maximum of 75% Loan 
 To Value. Loans which are £500,000 and above will need to be 
 referred to Northern Rock.
 
- Insurance
 Cover Me - Your buildings, contents and possessions are covered against 
 all the main causes of damage. For comprehensive peace of mind, it's 
 one of the most all-embracing covers a Northern Rock homebuyer can 
 have. We can also help to safeguard your monthly payments should you 
 run into unexpected financial problems. 
 
- 
 Payment Protection 
 Insurance 
 We can also help to safeguard your monthly payments should you run 
 into unexpected financial problems. 
 
- Commercial 
 Mortgages
 We offer a variety of fixed, LIBOR, and managed rate repayment options. 
 And our team of Commercial Regional Lending Managers will be happy 
 to provide you with a quick decision. 
 
- Ways 
 To Repay Your Mortgage
 You can arrange this insurance through our association with Legal 
 & General.
 
 
EXISTING CUSTOMERS 
 
 
 Existing Northern 
 Rock borrowers that are not moving home have the opportunity to enjoy 
 the same mortgage deals that homemovers can benefit from. 
 If you already 
 have your mortgage with us and would like further information about 
 transferring to one of our new products, please call Northern Rock 
 Direct for full details on 0845 600 6622. 
 
 
 
 
 
© Northern Rock plc 2002 
 
 
 
 back to top 
 
 
 
