
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Is it right for me? 
 
	 
 
 How much can I borrow? 
 
	 
 
 Repayment Options 
 
	 
 
 Lending Criteria 
 
	 
 
 How to apply 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Investment Housing Loans > How to apply 
 
Investment Housing Loans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
How to apply 
	
You can apply for an Investment Housing Loan in several ways: 
	
	
- Contact your local branch 
	
- Contact your own Executive Banking Manager or Business Banking Manager 
	
	
Whichever way you choose to apply, we will guide you through the 
 application process. To allow us to make a decision on your application, 
 we are likely to require the following: 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bank Statements 
 
 
 
- Copies of your last three months Bank statements.
 
 
 
 
 Income Details 
 Where Salary Multiples are 
 being used to calculate your loan:
	 
	 
- If employed - your last 2 salary slips and P60 or confirmation of employment from your employer. 
	 
- If self employed - the last 2 years signed Audited/Certified Accounts from your business or a Certified/Chartered Accountants letter confirming your income for the last 3 consecutive years. 
	 
 
 
 
 Rental Income 
 Where Rental Income is 
 being used to calculate your loan:
	 
	 
- We will need to see a Valuation Report, which must include an indication of the market rental value and likely market demand for the property.
(Note: where a valuer will not include this information, proof of the market rental value and likely market demand for the property is required from an ARLA registered letting agent.) 
	 
 
 
 
 Valuation 
 
	 
	 
- A professional Valuation Report is required from a member of the Bank's approved valuation panel. We can advise you which valuers are approved.
	 
 
 
 
 Asset & Liability Statement 
 
	 
	 
- A signed statement of Assets and Liabilities 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
	
There may be some additional information required. 
	
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For remortgages 
 
 
 
- Copy of last mortgage statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 For property purchases 
 
 
 
- Copy of evidence of a deposit from you.
 
 
 
	 
 New customers 
 
 
 
- Certified copy of passport and driving licence.
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 IMPORTANT 
 INFORMATION 
 
Written quotations are available on request. All loans are subject to status and applicants must be aged 18 or over. Security is required. One or more of the following policies may be required: Mortgage Protection, Endowment and Pension Plan. 
	
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. 
	
Northern Bank Limited represents only the National Australia Life Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Personal Investment Authority and can advise on and sell the Life Assurance, pensions and unit trust products of only that Group. Please note that the National Australia Life Marketing Group does not currently have an endowment or an ISA mortgage plan within its product range. 
	
Northern Bank Limited is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	
Credit Facilities are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
