
Social & Environmental Report 2001
 
	Barclays Home | Contact us | About Barclays 
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home : Equality and diversity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
 
 
 
 
 Customers 
 
 
 
 
 Employees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equality 
 and diversity 
 
 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Issues 
 
 
 
 
 Environment 
 
 
 
 
 Feedback/Contacts 
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equality and diversity
For more information about Equality and diversity:
	
- Equality and diversity Charter 
 
- Statement by the Chairman and Group Chief Executive
	
- Knowing our customers
	
- Improving access
	
- Flexible working
	
- Our employees
	
- What employees think
	
- People with disabilities
 
Becoming a more inclusive organisation will enable us to capitalise on the talent of all our employees, recruit and retain the best people regardless of their background and improve our services to diverse customers and communities. That's why we are putting such much focus on equality and diversity right across our organisation
 
During 2001, we took huge strides towards 
 ensuring principles of Equality and diversity are integrated 
 into everything we do. To signal their determination, all 
 members of our Executive Committee signed a charter committing 
 them and the business toEquality and diversity principles. 
 That commitment included agreeing the following objectives: 
 
 
- By 2012 Barclays will have a workforce 
 that reflects the communities in which we operate and the 
 international nature of the organisation
 
- By 2006 in the UK we will at least double the representationof 
 women in senior executive positions (from 11% to 22%)and 
 3% of senior executives will come from ethnic minority backgrounds 
 (from 0.6%)
 
- By 2006 more than 70% of employees in 
 all employee groups will be satisfied with Barclays performance 
 onEquality and diversity.
 
 
Each business area has been tasked with 
 setting its own annual objectives to contribute to the wider 
 Barclays goals. We seek to involve a wide range of employees 
 in tackling Equality and diversity issues. At the heart of 
 our work in this area are five task forces of employee volunteers. 
 Each task force looks at one of the key issues of race, gender, 
 disability, sexual orientation and age. Senior champions, including 
 the Chief Executives of Barclaycard and Barclays Private Clients,lead 
 these groups.
 
One of the successes of this approach in 2001 was a collaboration 
 between human resources staff and employees from the sexual 
 orientation task force. Together, they initiated a review 
 of UK employee benefits to ensure they did not inadvertently 
 discriminate against gays and lesbians. As a result, our UK 
 employee benefits are now designed to treat people fairly 
 regardless of sexual orientation or marital status. This move 
 won us positive feedback both from employees and from UNIFI, 
 which now uses Barclays as a case study of Equality and diversity 
 policy in action.
 
Other new initiatives have included career development and 
 motivation courses for colleagues with disabilities, the development 
 of new recruitment advertising to appeal to people of all 
 backgrounds and the creation of multi-faith quiet rooms in 
 our contact centres to allow people to follow their religion.
 
Externally, we are involved in sharing best practice with 
 others in this field. We continue to support and be involved 
 with the Employers' Forum on Disability, the Employers 'Forum 
 on Age, and Business in the Community. We are proud to be 
 one of the first Stonewall Diversity Champions in 2001. We 
 also collaborated with the Commission for Racial Equality, the 
 Equal Opportunities Commission, the Disability Rights Commission 
 and Stonewall to support the equality campaign Absolutely Equal at the UK political party conferences in 2001.
We will continue this involvement in 2002.
Outside the UK, Barclays Africa launched its equal opportunities
policy during 2001 in direct response to concerns expressed in
a 2000 employee survey. Concerns being addressed include
tribal and sex discrimination and favouritism.
We recognise that we have a long way to go before we reach
our goals in this area. Our 2001 employee opinion survey
contained a specific equality and diversity section enabling us
to track progress since the major survey we did in this area in
2000. We will use the recent findings as we develop a global
strategy for equality and diversity.
One of the key initiatives planned for 2002 is a wide-reaching
training programme for senior executives and managers. This
will promote the benefits of equality and diversity and help
managers get to grips with new practices, such as flexible
working, designed to support equal opportunities.
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Print PDF of... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Report 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
