
Sainsbury's Bank - Mortgages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 apply now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 mortgage expert 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 flexipay discount mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > the benefits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > repayment example 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > any questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > switch for free 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > terms & conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > mortgages Payment Sure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > charges and fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > repayment information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 fixed rate mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy-to-Let mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 some definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
> option 1 | > option 2 | > option 3 | > option 4 | > option 5 
 
 
 
We've arranged a 1.5% discount off your interest rate for the first six
 months - especially helpful if you're buying your first house. If you're
 not moving home, you can also switch from your existing lender to a Sainsbury's
 Bank flexipay discount mortgage.
 
We want to give you maximum flexibility when you're buying your own home.
 
 
Here are some of your options. You can choose any of the options whenever
 you want as long as you borrow no more than your Home Loan Upper Limit.
 
 
Certain restrictions apply - see 'exercising your
 options' and 'home loan upper limit' sections:
 
option
 1
 own your own home sooner and pay less interest 
 
option
 2 
 make 10 repayments a year and take 2 months off
 
option
 3 
 borrow money against any equity in your home
 
option
 4 
 pay less each month and manage a tighter budget
 
option
 5
 take a repayment holiday of up to 6 months
 
exercising your options
 
The flexible options are exercised by calling Sainsbury's Bank Customer
 Services. 
 A pre-set limit is placed on each mortgage account at the outset, equivalent
 to the original loan plus 5% of the valuation of the property. The 'overpayments'
 and '10 repayments a year' , flexible options may be exercised immediately,
 the other flexible options may be exercised after 3 or 24 monthly repayments
 depending on the original loan to value and provided there has been no
 breach of the mortgage terms and conditions. Underpayment can be made
 or further advances taken up to the pre-set limit. Payments can be stopped
 for a maximum of six monthly instalments or up to the pre-set limit, whichever
 is less. Any previous overpayments or lump sum payments into the account
 can also be withdrawn.
 
 
home loan upper limit 
 
You can choose any of the options whenever you want as long as you don't
 borrow any more than your Home Loan Upper Limit. 
 
We'll agree your upper limit with you when you take out your flexipay
 discount . It will be equivalent to the original amount you borrowed,
 plus 5% of the value of your property. 
 
Property value = £50,000 
 
You borrow £45,000 + 5% of property value £2,500 = Home Loan Upper Limit
 £47,5000
 
 
 
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS
 ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
