
Barclays Brochureware
 
 Barclays 
 Home | Legal | Contact 
 Us | About 
 Barclays | Site 
 Map | Useful 
 Info | Toolbox 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home 
 : Openplan : Questions
 
 
 
Online Banking : log-in | register
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interested 
 in... 
 
 
 
 Overview 
 
 
 
 Openplan Money Manager 
 
 
 
 Openplan 
 Savings 
 
 
 
 Openplan 
 Offset Mortgage 
 
 
 
 How 
 to apply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Look 
 at our... 
 
 
 
 Demos 
 
 
 
 Case studies 
 
 
 
 Questions 
 
 
 
 Interest rates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Select a subject heading to go straight to the relevant section. 
 
 
 Openplan
 
 Openplan Money Manager
 
 Openplan Savings
 
 Openplan Offset Mortgage
 
 Please note, when you apply for Openplan you will also receive 
 a Welcome Pack detailing further information on your account(s) 
 and their rules.
 
Openplan
 
 Should I put all my eggs in one basket? 
 Openplan is not about grouping your accounts into the one 
 - it's about linking them so that they work harder for you. 
 Your accounts stay separate, but you can use spare cash in 
 your current account to build your savings, or reduce the 
 interest paid on your mortgage. 
 
 How many Openplan arrangements can I have?
 You are only allowed to have one Openplan arrangement, which 
 can include a combination of Openplan Money Manager, Openplan 
 Savings and Openplan Mortgages, or even all three together.
 
 How easily and how quickly can I change my Openplan arrangements 
 and sweeping rules?
 Once you have Openplan set up, it couldn't be simpler. Just 
 call your usual number or pop into your branch and talk to 
 a personal banker. If you're a Barclays Online Banking member, 
 you can also amend your arrangements online.
 
I don't have a Barclays current account, can I apply for 
 Openplan?
 You do require a Barclays current account to take advantage 
 of our Openplan Money Manager, Openplan Savings and Openplan 
 Offset Mortgages. 
 
For the Woolwich Flexible Mortgage you do not need a current 
 account. 
 
To apply for a Barclays current account, visit your local 
 branch. 
 
 
How many Openplan Savings Accounts am I allowed to have?
 You are allowed a maximum of 12 Openplan Savings Accounts 
 or "pots" in total across both Offset Mortgage and 
 Openplan Savings arrangements. 
 
back to top
 
 
Openplan Money Manager
 
 How can I be sure Openplan Money Manager is right for me?
 If you want better control of your money and your cash to 
 work harder and automatically then Openplan Money Manager 
 is right for you. 
 
 I already have a Barclays current account - do I need to change 
 it?
 No - Openplan is simply an "upgrade" to your existing 
 current account, which can start working right away.
 
How long will it take to process my application?
 Simply visit or call your nearest branch and we will set 
 up Money Manager on your account. If you are a Barclays Online 
 Banking member, you can now apply online with our easy four 
 step application. 
 
 
Is there a minimum level for my "sweeps" and 
 "replenishments"?
 Yes, the minimum sweep amount is £50, or £100 
 if sweeping to your Woolwich Mortgage, and the minimum replenishment 
 is £100. 
 
 
What happens if my "sweep" day falls on a weekend 
 or bank holiday?
 If your "sweep" falls on a weekend or bank holiday, 
 it will be made on the preceding bank working day.
 
What happens on the months where there are only 30 days 
 if I have set up "sweeps" to take place on the 31st?
 If this happens, the last day of the month will be used 
 instead. 
 
Can Openplan Money Manager stop me from going overdrawn?
 Yes - as long as you have enough funds in your Openplan 
 Savings Reserve Account to top up your current account.
 
back to top
 
Openplan Savings
 
 How can I apply for Openplan Savings?
 To apply for Openplan Savings please contact your local 
 branch who will be pleased to help you. 
 
How many pots can I have?
 To set up Openplan Savings, you must have at least two pots. 
 The maximum number is twelve.
 
What if I change my mind and want to save for something 
 else?
 You simply either change the name of an existing pot or 
 set up a new one whenever you want.
 
What type of savings account can I have in Openplan Savings?
 Each of your pots must be an Openplan Savings Account.
 
back to top 
 
Openplan Offset Mortgage
 
 How can I be sure an Openplan Offset Mortgage is right for 
 me?
 If your current 
 or savings accounts are in credit, then Openplan could be right 
 for you. An Openplan Offset Mortgage can link your 
 current, Openplan Savings and Openplan Offset Mortgage accounts, which 
 could help you to take years and thousands of pounds 
 off the cost of your mortgage. It also works automatically. 
 
 
To find out more, why not talk to one of our Mortgage Specialists. 
 
 
 What about the hassle of closing and moving my existing 
 mortgage to Openplan?
 Moving your mortgage is easier than ever and one of our 
 Mortgage Specialists will help you out all the way. 
 
 
How long will it take to process my application?
 You can apply in branch with one of our Mortgage Specialists 
 
 and potentially within six weeks you could start saving years 
 and thousands of pounds on your mortgage. You can now also 
 apply online.
 
 If I offset my savings to reduce the interest I pay on 
 my mortgage, do I still earn interest on my savings?
 You will not receive interest on any credit balances in your 
 current account and savings accounts whilst they are in an 
 offset arrangement. Instead, your credit balances are offset 
 against your mortgage balance, so you are only charged 
 interest on the difference. 
 
Why should I reduce interest on my borrowings rather than 
 earn a good return on my savings?
 Because the savings you make on your mortgage interest 
 should usually far outweigh the interest you'd make on your 
 savings balances. 
 
For example, instead of earning 3% on your savings and paying 
 4.75% on your mortgage, you are only charged interest on the 
 difference between your mortgage and savings balances, effectively 
 receiving a rate of return on your savings equivalent to the 
 mortgage rate. So in this example you would earn considerably 
 more by offsetting your savings than you would just putting 
 them into a savings account. 
 
How can I be sure that you will keep your interest rates 
 competitive?
 The Openplan Offset Mortgage is a Woolwich tracker mortgage 
 - so you can feel safe in knowing your mortgage rates will 
 always move in line with our base rate.
 
Are there any charges if I decide to remove my account 
 from my offsetting arrangement in the future? 
 No, there is no charge if you chose to remove your accounts 
 in the future. But of course your mortgage term would no longer 
 reduce. 
 
back to top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
