
 
 
 
Home
 > RoI
 
Legal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Finances
 
Corporate Banking and Financial Markets
 
Small Business
 
EURO
 
What's New
 
Jobs in Ulster Bank Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Group Websites
Anytime Internet
Lombard & Ulster
NCB Direct
Trader Gold
 
 
 
 
Back to What's New
 
This article appeared in the July/August issue of 
Inside Business - The Magazine of The Chambers of 
Commerce of Ireland.
Planning For Euro Day
Ulster Bank is a co-sponsor of CCI's 
Chamberchangeover campaign which is supported 
by the ECBI Promotional Programme. The 
project manager for Ulster Bank is Pat 
McArdle who has worked on the emerging 
currency and its predecessor, the European 
Monetary System, for almost 20 years. A 
former Department of Finance official, 
McArdle is an economist. He joined the 
European Commission in 1982 where he worked 
in the EMS unit, DG 2, and subsequently 
was involved in exchange rate policy in 
the Department of Finance before becoming 
chief economist with NCB Stockbrokers. 
In other words his experience and work 
more than qualify him to address the subject 
of the Euro.
The low level of preparedness in businesses 
is a matter of great concern to Pat McArdle. 
He cites a Forfas survey 
that shows that almost 80% of Irish businesses 
will make the changeover on the day frequently 
with little or no prior preparation. For 
such reasons, he was happy to be a sponsor 
of CCI's Eurochangeover programme.
McArdle views the Chambers as microcosms 
of companies in that they have inherent 
commercial functions. "The issues that 
are relevant to business are relevant to 
the Chambers," he notes. In addition, the 
Chambers' members are businesses and therefore 
the Chamber movement is ideally placed 
to influence business with regard to the 
introduction of the euro.
THREE DIMENSIONS
According to Pat McArdle, there are three 
dimensions to Ulster Bank's sponsorship 
of and participation in CCI's Chamberchangeover 
programme. The first of these dimensions 
were the successful impact and assessment 
projects undertaken for Dundalk and Bray 
& District Chambers of Commerce. Ulster 
Bank helped design the projects and selected 
and paid for consultants to undertake the 
work in co-operation with the two Chambers.
The second dimension involved assistance 
with the roll out of CCI'S Chamberchangeover 
programme to the Chambers.
The third element involved Ulster Bank 
sponsored seminars and workshops held in 
conjunction with Chambers for their members. 
To date among the Chambers who have hosted 
these events are Waterford, Dundalk, Athlone, 
Ennis, Castlebar, Galway, Kilkenny and Monaghan.
Apart from organising speakers and making 
the arrangements for the seminars, Ulster 
Bank also contributed to each seminar's 
costs. This was matched by ECBI, the other 
main sponsor. In addition, McArdle persuaded 
The Irish Examiner to become the media 
sponsor of the seminars, with the newspaper 
contributing space to advertise the seminars. 
Ulster Bank also helped to obtain local 
media coverage for the events.
Among the guest speakers at seminars 
have been David Croughan, IBEC's chief 
economist and euro project director, who 
addressed the issues facing retailers. 
Michael Callely of Forfas dealt with information 
technology and software issues.
ULSTER BANK'S EURO PROGRAMME
One of the reasons why Ulster Bank has 
been happy to participate in the CCI Chamberchangeover 
programme is that the bank has been heavily 
involved in preparing its own customers 
for the past five years. Ulster Bank's 
European Monetary Union project got underway 
when McArdle joined the bank in 1996. "Ulster 
Bank has a very strong track record in 
relation to EMU and the euro," says McArdle. 
"We have been operating in euros since January 
1, 1999 and have an extensive communications 
programme regarding the Euro to our customers. 
With the participation of IBEC, SFA, RGDATA, 
Chambers and the accountancy bodies, we 
have hosted between 50 and 60 euro seminars 
for customers already this year," he adds.
McArdle, whose official title is Head 
of Economic Research and Euro Communications, 
is the author of Euro Banking Made Easy, 
the Ulster Bank Guide to the Chamberchangeover. 
This comprehensive guide deals with such 
topics as:
- The timetable to the new currency introduction
- Key dates with recommendations as 
to the actions to be taken
- Charges and the bank's commitment to customers
- Early conversion and the facilities the bank offers
- Changeover advice for personal customers
- Changeover advice for business customers
- Retailers - important messages
- Sources of Euro information.
Businesses would be well advised to 
obtain a copy of this valuable guide from 
their local Ulster Bank branch. 
 
 
