
Current Accounts at Alliance & Leicester plc
	
	
	
 
 
 
Your browser doesn't support scripts, so some areas of this site will not work as intended. For maximum benefit from this site we suggest you use a JavaScript-enabled browser.
 
 
Home > Current Accounts
Do you think there's more to life than banking?
However you prioritise the things in your life and whatever requirements you have of a bank, at Alliance & Leicester we have a Current Account to match.
 
 
 
 
 
Premier Current Account
 
 
 
 
 
"I want my money to work harder and I want great deals"
 
 
- 3.14% (AER 
 variable) interest payable on balances from £11
 
- 0% interest on your overdraft for the first 12 months2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alliance Current Account
 
 
 
 
 
"I want access to the money I need, when I need it"
 
 
- Access to all 36,000 cash machines in the UK, over 300 branches and 
 around 17,500 UK Post Office branches
 
- Fee-free authorised overdraft3 - for extra spending power 
 when you need it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U18 Cashcard Account
 
 
 
 
 
"I'm under 18 and I want to get to my money at any time"
 
 
- Access to all 36,000 cash machines in the UK - all in convenient places
 
- Withdraw up to £250 a day4 - for the bigger things you 
 want to buy
 
 
 
 
1 Gross rate 3.10% p.a. Gross is the interest rate before income tax 
 deduction at the rate determined by the Inland Revenue. The rates shown are 
 variable and are correct as at 27 May 2002. AER stands for Annual Equivalent 
 Rate and illustrates what the interest would be if interest was paid and compounded 
 each year. 
2 Overdrafts are subject to status. Written quotations available on 
 request. Overdrafts are repayable on demand. Overdrafts up to £2,500 qualify 
 for 0% interest for the first 12 months from account opening only (£2,500 
 is a maximum interest free limit). The account will revert to the standard overdraft 
 rate, currently 0.79% per month (variable). Our Standard Effective Annual Rate 
 (EAR) is 9.9% (variable). This offer is only applicable to new current 
 account customers (not available to our existing current account customers). 
 Please refer to the current interest 
 rates and charges for further details.
3 Overdrafts are subject to status. Written quotations available on 
 request. Applicants must be 18 or over and resident in the UK. Authorised overdrafts 
 will be charged at a rate of 0.95% per month (variable) (12% (EAR)). Customers 
 who allow their accounts to become overdrawn without approval or exceed their 
 overdraft limit will be charged the unauthorised interest rate of 0.95% per 
 month (variable) (12% EAR) on the entire overdrawn balance. Overdrafts are repayable 
 on demand. Fees for unauthorised overdrafts are payable. Please refer to the 
 current interest rates and charges 
 for further details.
4 Subject to available funds in your account.
The content of this website and the products and services featured are only directed at and are only available to residents of the United Kingdom. The contents of this website shall be governed and construed in accordance with English law.
By accessing and using this website you are agreeing to our Conditions of Use and our Privacy Statement.
For security and training purposes telephone calls may be recorded/monitored.
 
Alliance & Leicester plc. Registered Office: Carlton Park, 
 Narborough, Leicester LE19 0AL. Company Number: 3263713. Registered in England.
Copyright© Alliance & Leicester plc. All rights reserved.
Information correct as at 27 May 2002.
	
	
	
 
Internet Banking
Mortgages
Personal Loans
Motor Finance
Current Accounts
Savings
Credit Cards
Investments
Insurance
Moving Home
Home Improvements
Offshore Banking
Share Dealing
Business Finance
Affiliate Programme
Other Services
 
	
 
Contact Us |
About Us |
Legals |
FAQ |
Site Index |
Accessibility
 
 
Apply Now
 
 
- Apply 
 Online
Current Account Options
 
 
- Premier 
 Current Account
 
- Alliance 
 Current Account
 
- U18 
 Cashcard
 
- Basic 
 Banking Account
Switching your account
 
 
- Premier 
 Current Account
 
- Alliance 
 Current Account
Interest rates and charges
 
 
- 
 Premier Current Account
 
- Alliance 
 Current Account
 
- U18 
 Cashcard 
 
- Compare 
 Rates
Useful Links
 
 
- Card 
 Protection Plan Plus
 
- Branch Locator
Current 
 Account Home
 
 
 
