
Clydesdale Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 FX Risk Management 
 
	 
 Interest Rate Risk Management 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Business
 > Treasury 
 
Treasury
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To attain financial success in today's sophisticated and fast moving
 marketplace, it is essential to protect profitability from the dangers
 of fluctuating foreign exchange and interest rates. 
 
 Clydesdale Bank
 Treasury can help you achieve your financial goals. Our aim is to
 deliver attractive and innovative risk management solutions to your
 organisation and to contribute to your risk management strategies
 to build greater prosperity. 
 
Global coverage
 Our dealers can call on the resources of the National Australia
 Bank Group, and are able to monitor customer positions 24 hours
 a day. Represented in key financial centres in the UK, Republic
 of Ireland, Far East, Australia, New Zealand and New York, we are
 equipped to provide up-to-the-second rate quotations for all major
 currencies. The Group's network of Trading Rooms around the globe
 use advanced technology to track and anticipate market movements.
 
 
 Tailored product
 range
 We offer a range of specialist risk management products that can
 be tailored to meet your requirements. These include spot and foward
 foreign exchange, currency and interest rate risk management as
 well as money market sterling and currency loans and deposits. 
 
 Dedicated Treasury
 specialists
 At Clydesdale Bank Treasury we are committed to building an in-depth
 knowledge of your business to help us to meet your needs. Our teams
 of experienced, professional dealers are able to advise and quote
 on our full product range and to help provide solutions to your
 specific requirements. To deliver the speed of service you demand,
 we can arrange for you to have direct telephone access to the Treasury
 Dealing Room, where every member of the team has the authority to
 execute a transaction. As well as calling you to pass on market
 information as it happens, our Treasury specialists will also provide
 daily and weekly newsletters to keep you informed of the very latest
 market trends. 
 
 Treasury Economists
 can provide, on a regular basis, objective technical information
 together with forecasts relating to economies and world markets.
 
 
 Helping you
 achieve financial success
 Overall, our primary objective is to understand your business and
 react promptly to help you achieve your financial goals. 
 
 Combining experienced
 Treasury specialists, sophisticated dealing systems and a tailored
 product range, we aim to deliver a high quality, flexible and cost
 effective Treasury service. 
 
 How to find
 out more
 For further information on how the Clydesdale Bank can help with
 your Treasury management needs, please 
 
 
- Email us - CBTreasury@dial.pipex.com
 - or,
 
- fax us - 0141
 223 4924/4927 - or,
 
- contact our Treasury
 Sales Team at Clydesdale Bank PLC, Treasury, PO Box 43, 150 Buchanan
 Street, Glasgow, G1 2HL - telephone:-
 
 
- Foreign Exchange
 Risk Management - 0845 7888 150
 
- Interest
 Rate Risk Management - 0845 7606 3022
 
- Money Market
 - 0141 221 7512
 
- For enquiries
 from overseas - +44 141 223 4986
 
 
 
 For your security calls to the numbers quoted
 in these pages may be recorded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clydesdale Bank PLC, is a member
 of the National Australia Bank Group ('the Group') which
 comprises National Australia Bank Limited, its subsidiaries
 and associated companies from time to time. A complete
 list is available on request. The main European members
 of the Group are Clydesdale Bank PLC, National Irish
 Bank Limited, Northern Bank Limited, Yorkshire Bank
 PLC and National Australia Life Company Limited. 
 
 Information that you provide or
 that is obtained by us in our dealings with you may
 be held on the Group's computers and in any other way.
 This will be used by us for assessment and analysis
 (e.g. credit scoring, market and product analysis) to
 enable us to review, develop and improve the services
 we offer and enable us to provide you and other customers
 with relevant information through our marketing programme.
 
 
 We will inform you (by mail, telephone,
 fax, e-mail, or otherwise) about products and services
 (including those of others) which may be of interest
 to you. Please tick the relevant box(es) if you do not
 wish to receive details through our marketing programme:
 
 
 Please advise us if you wish to
 be excluded from mailings.
 Please advise us if you do not wish to be contacted
 by telephone or fax.
 Please advise us if you do not wish to be contacted
 by email. 
 
 We reserve the right to contact
 you by mail, telephone or other means in connection
 with the operation of the accounts or services provided
 to you. 
 
 You should be aware that sending
 information by internet email is not a secure method
 of transferring information and confidentiality cannot
 be guaranteed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	 
	© Clydesdale Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here.
Clydesdale Bank PLC subscribes to the Business Banking Code. Business users click here for details. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
