
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Products 
 
	 
 
 Introducing Your Personal Banker 
 
	 
 
 Find Out More 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Investment
 and Protection > Products
 > Retirement Planning
 
Investment and Protection
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
Retirement Planning
 
 Planning for retirement is now even more important
 than it ever was, especially when you consider what is happening
 to the State pension. It has been calculated that, if it increase
 in line with prices, the value will be reduced by one third in real
 terms by the year 2020. 
 
Starting your own pension
 
These days we are
 all living longer and healthier lives, and it is important that
 when we get older we have the resources to enjoy ourselves. After
 all, years of working should turn into years of relaxing, and it
 is important you have the type of pension to achieve what you want.
 It could be you want to retire early and take that trip of a lifetime
 you've always wanted, or simply want to make sure you have sufficient
 funds to continue doing what you feel like doing. After all, it
 is true that some people go on to spend as many years in retirement
 as they did at work. On that basis, any income earned in a year
 when working has to provide support for two years: one year at work
 and one in retirement. So, planning ahead is important and Yorkshire
 Bank can help. 
 
Topping up your company pension
 
If you have the opportunity to join a company
 pension, then it is usually a good idea to join it. What you must
 ensure, however, is that it will provide enough for you to live
 on when your retire, especially if you've ever changed employment,
 joined a scheme later in life, or if your contributions are made
 with only part of your full income. In these cases, it is important
 that the amount is topped up in some way. 
 
Knowing exactly what to do can be complex,
 but here too, your Personal Banker will be happy to help you find
 the right solution. 
 
Pensions for women
 
When you consider that, on average, women live
 up to five years longer than men, it makes good sense that any woman
 who is eligible should start her own pension and as soon as possible.
 There may be a smaller amount of income to invest, due to such things
 as a shorter working life caused by bringing up children, but even
 a small amount will mean you will have some sort of personal safety
 net for the future.
 
Self-employed pensions
 
The world of the self-employed carries a lot
 more risks than that of ordinary employment. A lot of the benefits
 available, especially to do with pensions, are not available, so
 special provisions have got to be made. Your Personal Banker can
 help. A flexible pension for example, allows you to make contributions
 that tie in with your seasonal cash flow. In other words, you pay
 more when business is good and pay less in leaner times. There's
 even an option to hold back contributions if finances are ever needed
 elsewhere. What's more you could claim tax relief on your pension
 contributions through your tax return. 
 
The value of investments may fluctuate
 and is not guaranteed and you may not get back the full amount invested.
 Tax legislation is subject to change. The value of any tax relief
 is dependent on personal circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yorkshire Bank PLC represents only
 the National Australia Life Marketing Group, members
 of which are regulated by the Personal Investment Authority
 and can advise on and sell the life assurance, pensions,
 unit trust and ISA products of that Group. In the case
 of a product arranged through members of the National
 Australia Life Marketing Group, the laws of England
 and Wales shall apply to that product.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Savings and Investment 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Protection for you and your family 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Retirement Planning 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
