
Social & Environmental Report 2001
 
	Barclays Home | Contact us | About Barclays 
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home : Environment : 
 Our Environmental Management System 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
 
 
 
 
 Customers 
 
 
 
 
 Employees 
 
 
 
 
 Equality 
 and diversity 
 
 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 
 Public Issues 
 
 
 Environment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Policy statement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our environmental management system 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Indirect impacts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Direct impacts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Training and communications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Case studies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Partnership 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Making a corporate commitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report from Price Waterhouse Coopers 
 
 
 
 
 Feedback/Contacts 
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Environmental Management System
 
Barclays Environmental Management System 
 (EMS), established in 1999 and developed in line with the international 
 EMS standard ISO14001, seeks to integrate responsibility for 
 environmental issues into the Barclays management structure 
 and processes.
 
During 2001, we extended the reach of the 
 EMS beyond the UK, rolling it out to Barclays Private Clients 
 (BPC) businesses in France, Spain and Portugal - covering 
 over 2,500 staff. In each of these businesses, a management 
 structure has been defined involving the Managing Director 
 of BPC, the heads of the three territories, environmental 
 champions and working groups. In 2002, Group Environmental 
 Management will be working with these businesses to set local 
 targets in support of Group environmental objectives.
 
2001 also saw the environmental policies 
 of Woolwich, which Barclays acquired in 2000, fully integrated 
 with those of the Barclays Group.
 
Looking to the future, we are committed 
 to broadening our EMS to include Barclays businesses in other 
 locations. In 2002 we will start rolling it out to our African 
 businesses. The environmental section of the report has been 
 informed by the Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) June 2000 
 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GRI has not verified 
 the contents of the report, nor does it take a position on 
 the reliability of information reported herein. For further 
 information, please visit www.globalreporting.org 
 
The scope of this section is limited to reporting on 
 the aforementioned UK and European operations (aside from 
 'Commercial lending', which covers the whole Group). As with 
 our 2000 report, this section includes a 
 report from PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Print PDF of... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Report 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
