 
Hampshire Trust - Commercial Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This page uses frames, but your browser doesn't support them.
 
 
HT-Commercial-closed
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
Hampshire Trust Top Banner
Hampshire Trust - Senior Management
 
 
 
 
Peter
 G. Cordrey
 Chairman
 
Peter Cordrey
 (Msc., FCA., FBIM.,) is a Chartered Accountant and a
 Fellow of the British Institute of Management. He joined the Bank in 1996 as a
 Non-executive Director and became Chairman on 1st January 1997 after 25 years with the
 merchant bank Singer & Friedlander Limited, the last 12 years as a director and head
 of banking. Peter Cordrey has extensive experience in all areas of banking.
 
Email: pcordrey@hampshire-trust.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
Michael
 J. Wilks
 Managing
 Director
 
Michael Wilks is a solicitor who qualified
 with honours and was awarded the Sir Gordon Fowler Prize. He was a founding Director of
 the Bank in 1977 and appointed Managing Director in 1984 taking up those duties full time
 in 1989. He was formerly a partner in a large and long established Hampshire law practice.
 
Email: mwilks@hampshire-trust.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
 
Stephen M.B. Hunter
 Deputy Managing
 Director
 
Stephen Hunter, a solicitor, joined the Bank
 in 1978 on being appointed a Non-executive Director. He was appointed Company Secretary
 and Executive Director in 1984 and in 1989 he was appointed Deputy Managing Director,
 prior to which he was the Managing Partner of the Hampshire law practice in which Michael
 Wilks was also a partner.
 
Email: shunter@hampshire-trust.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
Steven
 S. Dixon
 Associate
 Director
 
Steven Dixon
 (Cert. C.I.B.) joined the Bank in 1991 prior to
 which he occupied management positions with Beneficial Bank Plc and what was then the
 Trustee Savings Bank. He is an experienced and practical commercial banker responsible for
 the banks property lending activities.
 
Email: sdixon@hampshire-trust.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
John
 E. Pakenham-Walsh
 Finance Director
 
John
 Pakenham-Walsh ( Bsc.(Hons.) F.C.A., S.P.I.) is a Chartered Accountant of twelve years standing. He joined the
 Bank in
 1998 following fourteen years with Coopers & Lybrand, both in the United Kingdom and
 overseas. He has considerable experience in all aspects of the financial and accounting
 environment and has particular expertise in corporate recovery.
 
Email: jpakenhamwalsh@hampshire-trust.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 Page 
 Deposits
 and Savings 
 Commercial
 Loans 
 Factoring 
 Location 
 Senior
 Management 
 
 
 
Finance available for Business
Users | Privacy Policy 
Hampshire Trust Plc,
Fareham House,
69 High Street,
Fareham,
Hampshire,
PO16
7BB.
Telephone: (01329) 234294
Facsimile: (01329) 285910
email: directors@hampshire-trust.co.uk
 
- ---
 
 
 
 
 Website:
 Designed and managed by
 Nick Hillman of ICE Solutions Ltd.
 nhillman@ice-group.com 
 
 
 
