
Citibank UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 Citi.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security
 
 Apply Now
 
 About Us
 
 Help Desk
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
	
	 
	
	
 	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Citibank AAdvantage Visa 
	
	
	
	
	 Apply for the Card
	 Citibank AAdvantage Visa
	 Card Features
	 AAdvantage Programme
	 FAQs
	 Terms & Conditions
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 Apply 
 
 
 
 
	FAQs - Applying for the Card
	
	
What is the credit limit on the Card?
	
The credit limit is dependent on your individual circumstances, but the minimum limit is £3,500.
	
What are the interest rates on the Card?
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchases 
 Cash advances 
 
 Balance transfers 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly interest (variable)
 
 1.353% 
 1.353% 
 0.486% 
 
 
 
 
 APR 
 18.3% 
 20.1% 
 5.9% 
 
 
 
 
Can I use this Card for cash withdrawals?
 
Yes. You can withdraw currency from over 625,000 cash machines - wherever you see the VISA sign. However, as with purchases, you can only withdraw cash up to your personal credit limit. Cash withdrawals are subject to the following:
 
 
 
Fee 
 
1.50% 
 
 
 
Minimum Charge 
 
£1.50 
 
 
 
UK ATM Withdrawal Limit 
 
£1000 per day 
 
 
 
Overseas ATM Withdrawal Limit 
 
£1000 per day 
 
 
What is the annual fee?
£25
Can I transfer a balance from another card?
We have an introductory balance transfer rate of 5.9% APR. To benefit from this rate, you must transfer a balance within the first 30 days of your account being opened. During this time, you can transfer as many balances as you like, subject to a £200 minimum and up to your credit limit, and this rate will remain fixed for 6 months. After 6 months, the rate will revert back to the standard purchase rate - 18.3% APR.
What types of insurance do you offer as part of the Citibank AAdvantage Visa Card?
All Cardholders can take advantage of 3 insurance products - travel insurance, purchase protection and extended warranty - which are offered as an integral part of the Card. We also provide an additional 2 insurance products - Card Protection Plan (CPP) and Citibank repayment protection - for a small charge. Below are the main features of the insurance products: 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Description 
 
Cost 
 
 
 
Travel Insurance 
 
Complimentary Travel Insurance when you use your Card to pay for your travel arrangements. It includes cover for:
 £200,000 accidental death 
 Up to £500 flight delay 
 Up to £500 baggage loss 
 24 hour travel assistance 
 World-wide medical referral 
 
 
Free 
 
 
 
 
Purchase Protection 
 
 
 
Every time you use your Card to make a purchase, your goods will be covered against loss, theft or accidental damage for up to 30 days after purchase - providing they are not already insured. This also extends to purchases made from UK based web sites.
 Maximum claim of £1,500 per item, minimum claim of £5. 
 £15,000 cover per occurrence 
 Claims must be submitted within 45 days of loss, theft or accidental damage 
 
 
 
Free 
 
 
 
 
 
Extended Warranty 
 
 
 
When you use your Card to purchase electrical items in the UK or from UK based web sites, an additional one year of extended warranty is provided once the manufacturers warranty expires.
 Maximum claim of £1,000 per item 
 Up to £10,000 in any 12 month period 
 £50 excess per item 
 
 
 
Free 
 
 
 
 
 
Citibank repayment protection 
 
 
 
To benefit from Citibank repayment protection, you must apply at application stage (by ticking the appropriate box on the application form). In the event of unemployment, accident or sickness, your Citibank AAdvantage Visa Card repayments will be made for you:
 10% of your outstanding balance paid each month if you are off work for at least 30 days in a row due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
 Up to £25,000 outstanding balance settled on your Card account in the event of your death 
 
 
65p per £100 
 
 
 
 
 
Card Protection Plan 
 
 
 
Card Protection Plan covers your Card(s) against loss or theft, and orders replacements. This may be especially valuable to you when you are travelling away from home.
 Up to £1,000 fraud cover prior to notification 
 
 Unlimited fraud cover following notification 
 Emergency advances of up to £3,000 
 
 
 
One year single cover - £12
 
One year joint cover - £18
 
Three year single cover - £29
 
Three year joint cover - £44 
 
 
 
How do I make a claim on my insurance?
When your account is opened, full details will be provided to you. 
 Apply Now
*Excludes cash advances, the purchase of foreign currency or travellers cheques, balance transfers, interest and other charges. One AAdvantage Mile is not equivalent to a nautical mile.
Important Credit Information
Written quotations available on request. Credit is only available to persons aged 18 or over and is subject to status and conditions. Interest rates may vary. The Cardholder is required to make monthly payments within 25 days of statement date of at least minimum sum specified which shall not be less than 3% of the outstanding balance or £5, whichever is greater, or the full amount if less than £5.
 Apply 
 
 
 
 
 
