
 
	. 
	 
 
 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
let your home provide for you - with money to spend now or a guaranteed monthly cash release for the rest of your life. 
How the Home Equity Release Mortgage works 
- No Negative Equity Guarantee 
- Eligibility 
- What if I move house? 
- Are there any charges? 
The freedom to choose how to spend your money 
- What happens if I want to pay off my loan early? 
- If I die will my partner be able to continue to live in the house? 
Two options 
- Standard Home Equity Release Mortgage 
- Cash Plus Home Equity Release Mortgage 
Things to consider 
- Seek advice and consult your family 
- Think ahead and plan long term 
- Be aware of commitments under the agreement 
- What about insurance? 
How to apply 
Our promise to you 
All you need to know 
 TURN YOUR GREATEST ASSET TO YOUR ADVANTAGE
 
 Your home has served you well over the years. And now, with the mortgage paid, it's probably your greatest asset. How frustrating, then, that such an asset is made of bricks and mortar instead of pounds and pence.
 
 Today, more and more people like you are discovering a way of unlocking some of the money tied up in their home. And then using it to make life more pleasant in a thousand and one ways. 
 Think what you could do with just a small part of your home's value. Finally build that extension you've been planning for years, maybe? Or fix the leaky guttering that gets blocked every winter? Spoil yourself, perhaps, with the trip to America you'd always promised yourself? Or how about looking forward to the cushion of a regular cheque every month for the rest of your life?
 
 The Home Equity Release Mortgage is a special kind of loan developed especially for homeowners aged 60 and over. Although it's secured on your property, there are no payments to make and it lets you stay in the comfort of your own home for as long as you wish. Allowing you to enjoy some of the financial investment you've made in your house with absolutely no worries of having to give it up.
 
 And that's guaranteed. 
 PRODUCT RATE
P.A. RATE
APR ARRANGEMENT
FEE EARLY REPAYMENT
CHARGE MAXIMUM EQUITY
RELEASE % 
 HERM Standard Fixed 7.59% 7.8% £595 None* See Two Options 
 HERM Standard Capped 5.99% 6.2% £595 None* See Two Options 
 HERM Cash Plus Fixed 7.59% 8.0% £595 None See Two Options 
 HERM Cash Plus Capped 5.99% 6.3% £595 None See Two Options 
* See Early Repayment Charges conditions in the 'All you need to know' section. Early Repayment charges are not applicable to the Cash Plus option.
 
INTEREST RATE OPTIONS
There are two interest payment options on both the Standard and Cash Plus Home Equity Release Mortgages:
FIXED
The first option allows you to fix the rate of interest charged for the whole life of the loan. For Standard Home Equity Release Mortgages, the rate will be 7.59% (7.8% APR) and for Cash Plus the rate will be 7.59% (8.0% APR).
CAPPED
With the second option the rate will track the Bank of England Base Rate plus 1.99% (currently 4.00% + 1.99% = 5.99%) and is guaranteed not to rise above 8.49% for the life of the loan. The rate charged will be reviewed on the first of each month and adjusted if necessary on the first of the following month. For Standard Home Equity Release Mortgages the rate is 5.99% (6.2% APR) and for Cash Plus the rate is 5.99% (6.3% APR).
THIS INFORMATION MUST BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH HOME EQUITY RELEASE MORTGAGE - ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW SECTION. 
"Check that this mortgage will meet your needs if you want to move or sell your home or you want your family to inherit it. If you are in doubt, seek independent advice."
There are no monthly loan payments to be made under this mortgage product. The amount secured by the legal charge is to be repaid in a single payment from the proceeds arising from a sale of any property taken as security. A written quotation on loans can be obtained on request. Only available to persons of 60 years of age or over. Subject to status. Security in the form of a mortgage on your home will be taken. Northern Rock subscribes to the Mortgage Code. Northern Rock is committed to an equal opportunities policy in its lending criteria and in the provision of finance to homebuyers and owners. 
back to top
 
© Northern Rock plc 2001 
 
