
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your 
 Home > Rapid Repay > What the Press are saying > Flexibility first with new loan package 
 
Your Home
	
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flexibility first with new loan package
 
Belfast Telegraph - Homefinder
Page: 8
Date: Thursday 25 April 2002
By Mandi Millar
A NEW loan product is now available for Ulster home-owners - the first of its type to be sold from a high street bank here.
New homeowners in Northern Ireland could save a massive £700 million a year by taking advantage of Rapid Repay, according to the Northern Bank.
If the 30,000 new mortgages taken out in Northern Ireland each year (average value £56,500) were Rapid Repay mortgages instead of 25-year standard repayment mortgages, new homeowners could cumulatively save £691m.
"Rapid Repay provides all a homeowner's day-to-day lifetime banking requirements in just one account - a current account, overdraft, personal loan, mortgage and savings facilities," said Katherine James, general manager, personal financial services, Northern Bank.
"It was developed in response to increasing demand from homeowners, looking not only to free themselves from their mortgages while they were young, but also to increase their financial flexibility while paying off the loan." Most homeowners' salaries are paid into a current account and their mortgage repayment is debited from this account at a regular point during each month.
This means, from the time their salary is paid in until the mortgage payment goes out, they have a sizeable sum of money sitting idle in the account, earning little or no interest.
However, because Northern Bank's Rapid Repay account is a combined current account and mortgage, and features daily interest calculation, any money paid into the account starts working immediately by reducing the outstanding loan balance thereby saving interest.
Homeowners can also make use of Rapid Repay as the most effective form of instant-access borrowing (with a built-in safety limit to ensure the loan is paid off at the end of the agreed term) and as a tax-free saving facility.
Northern Bank's Rapid Repay current account mortgage is another lifestyle-focused product from the bank that first introduced the revolutionary 'Aussie' or flexible mortgage with daily interest calculation to Northern Ireland in the early 90s.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rapid Repay 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Benefits 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Rapid Repay Personal Illustration 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Downloads 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Important Information 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 What the Press are saying 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
