
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your 
 Home > Base Rate Tracker
 
Your Home
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
Base Rate Tracker
	 
Our tracker option is flexible, so you 
 can plan ahead
 
Always 0.99% above Northern Bank Base Rate
 
Right now, you can enjoy a great 
 interest rate when you take advantage of our Tailored Home Loan 
 tracker option.
 
But that's not all. You get an extra level of peace of mind too. 
 With the tracker option your loan repayments shadow base rate movements 
 at 0.99% above Northern Bank Base Rate. And not just for the first 
 few years either - you'll get this (Base Rate plus 0.99%) throughout 
 the life of your loan.
 
You'll also have the flexibility to plan ahead with confidence 
 because the tracker option can move home with you. And, if you decide 
 in future that you'd like to change to one of the many other great 
 Tailored Home Loan Packages, you can.
 
So now, in addition to the peace of mind you've always expected 
 from a Northern Tailored Home Loan, you can also enjoy a new level 
 of financial control.
 
Here's your at-a-glance guide to the key benefits:
	
 
- A great 
 interest rate. 
 
- Guaranteed to stay at 0.99% above Northern Bank Base Rate for 
 the entire life of your loan. 
 
- Flexibility - your loan can move house with you. 
 
- The freedom to change to any other Tailored Home Loan option*. 
 
	
Find out more about the Tailored Home Loan tracker option. Call into any Northern branch today to talk to an advisor - you don't need an appointment.
 
Important Information
 
* If you change to a new package within three years of drawdown, 
 a charge of one month's gross interest on the original amount of 
 the loan is payable.
 
Written quotations are available on request. All loans are subject 
 to status and applicants must be 18 or over. Security is required. 
 One or more of the following policies may be required: Endowment, 
 Pension Plan, Mortgage Guarantee. Interest rates and charges are 
 correct as at 1 May 2002 but these may vary, which could affect 
 repayments. Typical example: A Tailored Home Loan of £50,000 
 at 4.99% variable with 222 monthly repayments increased by approximately 
 £50 to £345.00 saves £10,892.68 in interest charges 
 and 6 years 6 months on the loan term. The APR 5.2% variable 
 and total amount repayable £77,101.47 include £552.50 
 estimate for arrangement fee, legal and valuation costs. The maximum 
 loan is 95% for First Time Buyers, 90% for existing property owners, 
 based on the lower of the purchase price or valuation. For loans 
 in excess of 90% of the lower of the cost or valuation of the property, 
 Mortgage Guarantee Insurance is required.
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE 
 OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
Northern is a trading name of Northern Bank Limited and is regulated 
 by the Financial Services Authority. It is a member of the National 
 Australia Bank Group. It represents only the National Australia 
 Life Marketing Group, whose companies are regulated by the Financial 
 Services Authority for the purpose of advising on and selling life 
 assurance products, pensions, adopted stakeholder pensions, ISA's 
 and collective investment products.
	 
Mortgages are not currently regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
At Northern we subscribe to the Mortgage Code and provide information 
 on the different types of mortgage products we offer so that you 
 can make an informed choice of which to take. Copies of the Code 
 are available on request. Please ask for a copy of "You and 
 Your Mortgage", a leaflet is available from Northern branches.
 
Northern Bank Limited, Registered in Northern Ireland No. R568, 
 Registered Office: Donegall Square West, Belfast, BT1 6JS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
