
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Short Term 
 
	 
 
 Longer Term 
 
	
	
	 
	 
	 Individual Savings Account 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal > Savings 
 > Individual Savings Account > Mini ISA
 
Individual Savings Account
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash ISA
 
A Cash ISA can be used as a Maxi* or Mini ISA and is fully described in our Key Features Document, available 
 on request from your local branch. Please ask if you require details of our other ISAs. Our Cash ISA meets the 
 Government's CAT Standards for low charges, easy access and fair terms. These are standards set by the Government 
 against the Criteria of Charges, Access and Terms. The Government does not endorse products meeting the Standards, 
 and they should not be regarded as a guarantee of performance or as an indicator of suitability. 
 
Its Aims
 
The Cash ISA helps to maximise your tax-efficient savings, both in the short and medium term, through secure 
 cash deposits.
 
Your Investment
 
The Cash ISA allows you to invest up to £3000 per tax year. You may choose to invest a lump sum, by cash, 
 cheque or credit card. Currently, the minimum lump sum investment is £10 and the minimum additional lump 
 sum for investors is £10. Alternatively, you may choose to invest a monthly sum by direct debit. At present, 
 the minimum regular saving amount is £10 per month and the minimum additional regular sum for investors 
 is £10.
 
You cannot invest in both a Maxi and Mini ISA in the same tax year or two Mini ISAs investing in the same option 
 (for example you cannot invest in 2 Mini Cash ISAs). By opening a Cash ISA, you will be limiting the amount 
 of tax-free savings in stocks and shares that you can make, if you do not already have a mini stocks and shares or insurance 
 ISA.
 
Risk Factors
 
 
- The rate of investment is variable and may change in the future; 
 
- The favourable tax treatment of ISAs may not be maintained by the UK Government; 
 
- The Cash ISA meets CAT Standards. It may not, however be a suitable investment for you. If you are not 
 sure, you should ask us for advice. There is no additional charge for this. 
 
 
 Full details are contained in our Key Features Document. This is also available on request from your local branch.
 
* Please note that the Cash option within the Maxi ISA is only available for investments within the 2002/03 
 tax year from customers who have already invested in the Maxi ISA this year. And from 6 April 2002 it will be 
 closed to new investment although any money already saved will continue to grow tax free.
 
Yorkshire Bank PLC is a member of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial 
 Services and Markets Act 2000. In respect of deposits with a UK office, payments under the Scheme are limited 
 to 100% of the first £2,000 of a depositor's total deposits with the bank and 90% of the next £33,000, 
 resulting in a maximum payment of £31,700. Most depositors, including individuals and small firms, are 
 covered. The Scheme covers deposits made with the offices of the bank within the European Economic Area and 
 deposits denominated in all currencies are treated alike. Further details of the Scheme are available on request.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is an ISA? 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Maxi ISA 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Mini ISA 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Cash ISA 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Key Features 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 	
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
