
Clydesdale Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 	 
 BACS - Direct Credit 
 
	 
 	 
 BACS - Direct Debit 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Business
 > PC Banking
 
PC Banking
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Have you ever considered
 how much of your business' time is taken up dealing with banking -
 much of it routine ? 
 
 TeleBank® Business,
 our PC banking package, can assist by carrying out a wide range
 of financial operations from your office personal computer without
 the need to visit your Bank. 
 
 By using TeleBank®
 Business you can access your bank accounts 24 hours a day, 7 days
 a week. 
 
How your business
 can benefit 
 
 
- Saves your
 business time and money
 Reduces time spent visiting your bank allowing you and your employees
 to manage your time more effectively. 
 Reduces administration
 time and costs associated with paperwork. 
 
- Freedom to
 access your Bank account
 Provides up-to-date information on your accounts 24 hours a day
 7 days a week. 
 
- Easy to Use
 Runs under Microsoft® Windows with the advantages of being easy
 to install and quick to learn. Should you require any assistance,
 on-line help is available on your PC and there is also a Help
 Desk you may contact. 
 
- Security
 Information is encrypted ensuring data is protected. 
 Gives you full
 control of any employee's access to functions on the PC and
 provides a full audit log of all activities. 
 
 
Range of Services
 You can tailor your TeleBank® system to meet your business' individual
 financial needs through choosing the relevant modules from the following
 selection :- 
 
Module 1 : Balance
 Reporting
 
 
- Provides balance
 and transaction details on your bank accounts up to close of business
 each evening and also provides real time updates throughout the
 day.
 
 
- Enables you to
 transfer funds between your accounts and keep surplus money in
 a TeleBank® Investment Account.
 
 
- Allows a small
 number of payments to pre-registered beneficiaries.
 
 
- The system allows
 you to restrict reports as required - you can group accounts for
 balance reporting, look at all paid cheques or even search to
 see if a specific payment has been received.
 
 
- Turns Bank data
 into manageable information with the ability to be exported to
 other software, such as a spreadsheet program to enable you to
 produce tailored management reports.
 
 
- The system can
 be set up to accept download files overnight so that your reports
 are ready each morning.
 
 
- Offers electronic
 mail facility for your employees to communicate between each other
 and with the bank.
 
 
Module 2 : CHAPS
 and SWIFT
	
CHAPS is the standard UK payment system for making same-day payments
 to any UK beneficiary. 
 
 SWIFT is the worldwide
 payment system for making payments outside the UK in a variety of
 different currencies.
 
 
- Makes electronic
 payment simple and convenient.
 
 
- Regular payee
 details can be registered with the Bank so all that requires updating
 is the amount.
 
 
- Payments can
 be prepared off-line and uploaded to the Bank in one "update"
 with confirmation being returned down the line. This process assists
 in minimising communication costs.
 
 
- Generates PC
 reports, giving a summary and details of payment transactions
 
 
Module 3 : BACS
 
 
- Allows automated
 payments to be made simply, effectively and cheaply. This is the
 cheapest form of making higher volume UK payments.
 
 
- Saves a large
 amount of administration time and costs.
 
 
- Facilitates preparation
 of payroll, trade payments or direct debits using a database on
 your PC.
 
 
- All the relevant
 information can be stored in advance with only the payment amounts
 requiring updating.
 
 
- Option of submitting
 instructions up to 30 days in advance of the due date.
 
 
- Unlike Bank Giro
 Credits, funds remain in your account for a further 2 days after
 you confirm the instructions.
 
 
- Generates PC
 reports, giving a summary and details of payment transactions
 
 
If you require further information on TeleBank®
 Business or would like to arrange a demonstration you can either
 email
 us or telephone + 44 141 223
 4552/4553. 
 
 We look forward
 to hearing from you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	
	 
	© Clydesdale Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here.
Clydesdale Bank PLC subscribes to the Business Banking Code. Business users click here for details. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
