Bank of Scotland
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	home >
	specialist funding solutions >
	infrastructure finance 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Home 
	
	
	Relationship	Banking 
	
	
	Corporate Banking 
Products 
	
	
	Specialist Funding 
Solutions 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Structured Finance 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Integrated Finance 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Joint Ventures 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Project Finance 
	
	
	 
	Equity 
	
	
	 
	Infrastructure Finance 
	
	
	
	
	Infrastructure Finance
Teams 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Housing Finance 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	International 
	
	
	Corporate Finance
 Newsletter 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	Bank of Scotland is the UK's leading provider of infrastructure finance and, following the merger with Halifax plc, as part of the HBOS Group we now have the strongest and most experienced team in the PFI/PPP market.
	As Bank of Scotland Infrastructure Finance, we are active across a range of sectors, including health, education, transport, defence and corporate PFI. Recognised as the top arranger for PFI/PPP deals in 2001, Bank of Scotland is a leader in this field having participated in a number of award-winning developments. 
	
	
	UK PFI Debt Raised 2001
Bank 
	No. of Deals 
	£M 
	
	
	Bank of Scotland Corporate Banking 
	11 
	776 
	
	
	Abbey National 
	4 
	400 
	
	
	Royal Bank of Scotland 
	9 
	366 
	
	
	ABN AMRO 
	1 
	305 
	
	
	Barclays 
	4 
	292 
	
	
	
	
	
	Source: Project Finance International, January 2002
	Offering an "integrated product" combining debt funding and risk capital investment, our Infrastructure Finance team aims to develop and maintain strategic alliances with key industry partners. Our in-depth experience of the PFI/PPP market, combined with the specialist skills of our corporate finance professionals, gives bidding consortia a clear competitive advantage.
	With separate teams specialising in Partnerships, Risk Capital, Corporate PFI & Real Estate Partnerships, Europe & Overseas and Asset Management, we hold a distinctive position within the marketplace, combining versatility with long-term commitment and support.
	Given the nature of infrastructure type projects, we place great emphasis on building relationships, both with leading industry sponsors and with public sector agencies. We have strong working associations with a network of organisations such as construction companies, service providers and legal and technical advisers. Working in tandem with our partners, we are able to deliver specialised and on-going support, combining the security of tried and trusted procedures with our flexible and individualised approach to business.
	Contact our Infrastructure Finance team for more information.
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Joint Ventures
	Strategic alliances with key customers 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Relationship Banking
	Ongoing support for your company 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Contact us: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Offices and contacts 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Email 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Other Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	HBOS plc Group Info 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Business Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Treasury Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	EURO Services 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
