CVS INFO
Description of the template or HTML page
Author : $Author: vastrom $
Version : $Revision: 1.13 $
Date : $Date: 2001/01/24 13:19:28 $
-->
Sainsbury's Bank - Savings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 which account is right for me? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 instant access savings account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > apply now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > the benefits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > terms & conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 direct saver 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 get in touch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions
 In these conditions 'Account' means Sainsbury's Bank Instant Access Savings
 Account; 'Agreement' means the agreement between the Bank and You, the
 terms of which are these conditions as varied from time to time; 'ATM'
 means any automated telling machine from which cash may be withdrawn by
 the use of the Card; 'the Bank' means Sainsbury's Bank plc and its successors
 and assignees; 'Card' means the Bank cashcard issued to a Cardholder;
 'Cardholder' means any person for whose use a Card is issued by the Bank;
 'PIN' means the personal identification number issued to a Cardholder;
 'The Service' means the arrangement whereby the Bank has agreed to accept
 instructions by telephone to carry out specific transactions or to obtain
 specific information; 'You' means the person in whose name this Agreement
 is made and where this consists of two or more persons then that definition
 shall throughout mean all or any of them, and the liability of such persons
 shall be joint and several.
 
Account operations
 1. The Account must not be used by Clubs or Associations or for business
 purposes.
 2. In the case of an Account in the name of two or more individuals, the
 Bank has authority to debit the Account with orders signed by either/any
 one of You or any other party authorised by You to sign on the Account
 and, in the case of death, by any survivors or survivor of You. Should
 any circumstance arise whereby an overdraft is created, You will be held
 Joint and Severally liable for the debt.
 3. The Bank will send You quarterly statements of your Account.
 
Telephone banking service
 1. The first time that You call to use the Service, You will be asked
 to set your own password(s) which should be kept confidential. As a further
 security measure you may be asked a number of personal questions.
 2. If You know or suspect that a password and/or confidential information
 has become known to an unauthorised person, the Bank must be advised immediately
 with confirmation in writing within seven days. During this time, the
 Service will be suspended and will only be reintroduced once You have
 set a new password.
 3. The Bank is irrevocably and unconditionally authorised by You to act
 on all instructions received in respect of the facilities offered within
 the Service and to debit and credit the relevant account with the amount
 of all transactions initiated through the Service.
 4. You acknowledge that the supply of the password and correct answers
 to the personal questions referred to above is sufficient evidence for
 the Bank to assume that it is dealing with You without the Bank being
 required to make any further enquiry or to otherwise verify any instruction
 and the Bank may act on such instruction or purported instruction accordingly.
 5. Instructions received via the Service will only be accepted by the
 Bank when You have the right to use the Service and this has not been
 withdrawn or suspended for any reason.
 6. If You have deliberately or negligently disclosed your password and/or
 other confidential information to someone else, You will be liable for
 any debits made to your Account in respect of facilities provided within
 the Service and any other resultant losses arising as a result of such
 disclosure.
 7. Telephone calls may be recorded for security purposes and monitored
 to ensure that service quality is being maintained.
 8. The Bank shall not be liable for any loss or damage whether direct
 or consequential as a result of the Service being used in the following
 circumstances: (i) any breach of confidentiality resulting directly or
 indirectly from your use of the Service or, (ii) any other circumstances
 beyond the Bank's control.
 9. The Bank reserves the right to reverse or recall any transfers and/or
 payments made if the transfers or payments are not within the terms of
 this Agreement or if the Bank has reasonable grounds for believing that
 the transfers or payments have been made fraudulently or illegally.
 10. Instructions to transfer funds using the Service will normally be
 dealt with on the date of receipt and will take a maximum of four working
 days to reach the beneficiary's bank account.
 11. For your security, the Bank will request written authorisation for
 transfers in excess of £50,000.
 12. Although the Service operates 365 days a year, the term 'working day'
 excludes Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays.
 13. In order to protect You, the Bank and the banking systems, the Bank
 is immediately entitled to suspend or withdraw the right to use the Service
 if (i) the Account is not being used within the terms of this Agreement,
 or (ii) the Bank has reasonable grounds to believe that the Service is
 being used negligently, illegally or fraudulently, or (iii) the Bank believes
 that the security of its systems used to provide the Service may be compromised.
 You will remain liable for all transactions or obligations (and related
 interest and charges) that are incurred before and after termination.
 
Cashcard
 1. The Cardholder must sign the Card immediately on receipt and the Card
 may only be used by the Cardholder during the validity period embossed
 on the Card. 2. The Bank is irrevocably authorised to debit the Account
 with all amounts withdrawn through an ATM by means of any Card issued
 to the Cardholder. 3. The Cardholder is not entitled to use the Card to
 obtain cash from an ATM, for a value of more than the daily maximum amount
 as advised by the Bank. 4. The Card will remain the property of the Bank,
 and should be destroyed on its expiry or returned to the Bank on demand.
 5. Every possible care will be taken by the Cardholder and You (a) to
 prevent the Card and/or any record of the PIN being lost, stolen or misused
 and, (b) to prevent anyone else knowing the PIN. The Cardholder or You
 will advise the Bank immediately of any loss, theft or misuse becoming
 known to them. (Address: Sainsbury's Bank plc, Teviot House, 41 South
 Gyle Crescent, Edinburgh EH12 9BD, telephone No. 0500 555 888).
 
Additionally, the Cardholder or You will notify the Bank as soon as possible
 after they suspect or have reason to suspect that details of the PIN have
 become known to any unauthorised Person. You will be liable for all transactions
 up to a total of £50 (or such greater statutory maximum for the
 time being as may be applicable)until receipt by the Bank of such notification.
 This means that, within the £50 limit, You may have to bear a loss
 when a Card has been used for an unauthorised transaction before the Cardholder
 or You have advised the Bank that the Card has been lost, stolen or misused.
 After the Bank has been effectively notified of the loss, theft or misuse
 of the Card, Your liability for any subsequent use of the Card will cease.
 There will be no limitation of Your liability where the Cardholder or
 You have acted fraudulently or been grossly negligent. In cases of disputed
 transactions, the burden of proving fraud or gross negligence will lie
 with the Bank. 6. The Cardholder and You will not disclose the PIN to
 any other person, including the police and Bank staff, none of whom can
 have any legitimate reason for asking for the number, nor will the Cardholder
 or You pass the Card to any other person. 7. If the Card is lost or stolen
 and/or the PIN is disclosed to or may have been discovered by any other
 person, the Bank may inform the police and furnish them with such information
 as they require.
 
Miscellaneous
 1. The Bank may vary interest rates at any time and changes will be advised
 to You personally by letter within 30 days. Changes will also be intimated
 in three national daily newspapers.
 2. Instructions sent by fax are not acceptable.
 3. The Bank does not recommend pay-ins by cash be made to the account
 by post. If You make payments in this way, the Bank will not be liable
 in respect of either non-receipt of such payments or any discrepancy between
 the amount specified by You as enclosed and the actual contents received.
 4. The Bank will give You at least one month's notice of its intention
 to close an Account, unless You are in breach of this Agreement, when
 it may do so immediately. You will remain liable for all transactions
 or obligations (and related interest and charges) which are incurred before
 and after termination. Credit balances will be refunded by either a payment
 to your main bank account (if details known), or by cheque upon closure
 of the Account.
 5. Cheques paid into the Account will take four working days to clear
 before the funds are available for use, (e.g. the proceeds of a cheque
 paid into your Account on a Monday will be available for withdrawal on
 the following Friday). Interest on such deposits will however start to
 accrue from the commencement of business on the third working day. N.B
 - Cheques drawn on a Northern Irish bank branch located in Northern Ireland
 require an additional two working days to clear before funds are available
 for use. Interest on such deposits will however start to accrue from the
 commencement of business on the fifth working day.
 6. Interest will accrue on a daily basis and will be credited to the Account
 monthly on the last working day of the month or annually on the last working
 day in February.
 7. Interest will be paid after deduction of income tax at the relevant
 rate unless You lodge the appropriate Inland Revenue form that allows
 us to pay you interest on a gross basis.
 8. Cheques paid into the Account must be in sterling and drawn on a Bank
 located in the United Kingdom.
 9. If a cheque is returned unpaid the amount of the cheque will be debited
 to the Account.
 10. The Bank may vary this Agreement at any time after giving You not
 less than one month's notice of any change except where the change needs
 to be made sooner to protect the security of the Service or the Account
 or where legislation requires an immediate change in which case no notice
 need be given. Variation of the terms will normally be to reflect changes
 in market conditions, good banking practice and legislation. In order
 to protect You, the Bank and the banking systems, the Bank is entitled
 to immediately suspend or withdraw the right to use the Card and the Service
 if: (i) the Account/Card/Service and/or PIN is not being used within the
 terms of this Agreement, or (ii) the Bank has reasonable grounds to believe
 that the Card/Service and/or PIN may be used negligently, illegally or
 fraudulently, or (iii) the Bank believes that security of its systems
 used to provide the Service may be compromised. You will remain liable
 for all transactions or obligations (and related interest and charges)
 which are incurred before and after termination.
 11. The Bank shall not be liable if it is unable to perform its obligations
 under this Agreement due, directly or indirectly to the failure of any
 ATM, data processing system or transmission link or to an industrial dispute
 or anything outside the control of the Bank or of the Bank's agents or
 sub-contractors.
 12. The Bank reserves the right to withdraw the Service at any time by
 giving you notice in writing. You may withdraw from the Service at any
 time by giving the Bank written notice.
 13. I/We understand that, in the event my/our identity cannot be verified
 from the information provided by me,
 the Bank may:
 
- request confirmation of my/our identity from another bank and/or
 
- suspend operations on any account in which funds have been lodged until
 satisfactory identification has been supplied.
 
- I/We have read the said terms and conditions and agree to be bound by
 them as varied from time to time.
 14. We wish to make transfers from time to time (i) to a nominated bank
 account held in our name, and (ii) to any other Sainsbury's Bank account,
 held in our name. We request the Bank to act on all instructions via the
 Service.
 15. We hereby indemnify the Bank, keep it free and hold it harmless from
 and against all and any charges, claims, costs, damages, demands, expenses,
 liability or loss ("Claims") which may be raised against it
 and/or incurred by it as a result of it so acting provided that such Claims
 do not arise from the negligence or wilful default of the Bank, its servants
 or agents. This authority will subsist until recalled in writing.
 16. Sainsbury's Bank is a member of the Financial Services Compensation
 Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. In
 respect of deposits with a UK office, payments under the Scheme are limited
 to 100% of the first £2,000 of a depositor's total deposits with the
 bank and 90% of the next £33,000, resulting in a maximum payment of
 £31,700. Most depositors, including individuals and small firms, are
 covered. The Scheme covers deposits made with the offices of the bank within
 the European Economic Area and deposits denominated in all currencies are
 treated alike. Further details of the Scheme are available on request.
 
Sainsbury's Bank is a registered Trademark of Sainsbury's
 Bank plc. 
 
&#134; Telephone calls may be recorded for
 security purposes and monitored under our quality control procedures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
