
Social & Environmental Report 2001
 
	Barclays Home | Contact us | About Barclays 
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home : Customers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
 
 
 Customers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Improving access 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial inclusion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Disclosure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal customers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The 
 local presence 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Business customers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Partnership 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Helping 
 customers in difficulty 
 
 
 
 
 Employees 
 
	 
 
 
 Equality 
 and diversity 
 
 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 
 Public Issues 
 
 
 
 
 Environment 
 
 
 
 
 Feedback/Contacts 
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
 	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customers
 Download and print PDF of this section
 
Barclays serves 20 million customers worldwide. 
 We invest heavily to maintain and strengthen our service to 
 customers by improving our technology, our products, our knowledge 
 of customers and the way we interact with them. We embrace 
 customers of all backgrounds and seek to meet their individual 
 needs by making our products and services accessible and appropriate 
 for an increasingly diverse society. 
 	Knowing our customers 
 	
Our starting point is to develop an understanding 
 of our customers and their needs, and we invest heavily in 
 market research. Last year, this included a number of projects 
 with a social perspective, including a study of the profile 
 and experience of older entrepreneurs and a report on young 
 entrepreneurship. We have carried out research to understand 
 the requirements and expectations of our ethnic-minority personal 
 and small-business customers, and the gay and lesbian market. 
 
As well as helping us develop our products and services, these 
 studies are often of general public interest. Where appropriate, 
 we make them publicly available to generate wider debate on 
 the subjects covered. 
	
In addition to our research, in 2001 
 we took advice from and worked closely with a number of organisations 
 reflecting our diverse customer and employee interests. These 
 include the Commission for Racial Equality, the Disability 
 Rights Commission, the Equal Opportunities Commission, the 
 Royal National Institute for the Blind (RNIB), the Royal National 
 Institute for Deaf People, Stonewall, the Employers' Forum 
 on Age, the Employers' Forum on Disability, the Executive 
 Professional Network and Business in the Community.
We have carried out research to understand the requirements and expectations of our ethnic-minority personal and small-business customers, the gay and lesbian markets, and our customers with disabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Print PDF of... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Report 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
