
Clydesdale Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 	 
 Savings Account 
 
	 
 	 
 Notice Account 
 
	 
 	 
 Term Deposit Account 
 
	
	
	 
 	 
 Individual Savings Account 
 
 	
 	
	
	
	
	 
 	 
 Find Out More 
 
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal
 > Savings Account
 > Individual Savings Account > Mini ISA
 
Individual Savings Account
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mini ISA
 
Rather than a single Maxi ISA you can hold up to 3 Mini ISAs, one
 for each of the options listed below. Each Mini ISA may be held
 with a different ISA Manager. This allows you to choose up to 3
 different ISA providers if you so wish. You can save up to a total
 of £7,000 in Mini ISAs in the first tax year, subject to the
 following maximum limits for the individual options: 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Cash 
	 £3,000 
	 
	 
	 Stocks and Shares 
	 £3,000 
	 
	 
	 Life Assurance 
	 £1,000 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
Each tax year you will need to decide whether to put your allowance in a Maxi with a single Manager, or choose 
 up to three different Mini ISAs. You cannot invest in both a Maxi and Mini ISA in the same tax year or two Mini 
 ISAs investing in the same option (for example you cannot invest in 2 Mini Cash ISAs). By opening a Cash ISA, 
 you will be limiting the amount of tax-free savings in stocks and shares that you can make, if you do not already have 
 a mini stocks and shares or insurance ISA.
 
Full details are contained in our Key Features Document. This is also available on request from your local branch.
 
Clydesdale Bank PLC is a member of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. In respect of credit balances with a UK office, payments under the Scheme are limited to 100% of the first £2,000 of a depositor’s total credit balances with the banks and 90% of the next £33,000, resulting in a maximum payment of £31,700. Most depositors, including individuals and small firms, are covered. The Scheme covers deposits made with offices of the bank within the European Economic Area and deposits denominated in all currencies are treated alike. Further details of the Scheme are available on request.
 
 
 
 
 
 What is an ISA? 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Maxi ISA 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Mini ISA 
	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Cash ISA 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 Key Features 
 	 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 	
	
	© Clydesdale Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
