
 
 
 
Home
 > RoI
 
Legal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Finances
 
Corporate Banking and Financial Markets
 
Small Business
 
EURO
 
What's New
 
Jobs in Ulster Bank Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Group Websites
Anytime Internet
Lombard & Ulster
NCB Direct
Trader Gold
 
 
 
 
Back to What's New
 
This article appeared in the Sunday Tribune on 
14 October 2001. 
Codes of Practice
 
Pictured at the launch 
of a series of 80 workshops to assist up to 5,000 
businesses to prepare for the euro changeover 
were (from left), Mr Lorcan O'Raghallaigh, 
Forfas; Mr Kieran Crowley, SFA; Mr Pat McArdle, 
Ulster Bank; Mr David Croughan IBEC; and
Ms Adrienne Harten, Chambers of Commerce of Ireland. The 80
training days will cover banking, cash, till training,
software and accounting, and will be held both during the
day and in the evening. 
 
The banking sector is going to be at 
the frontline when it comes to the euro 
changeover, but one bank - Ulster Bank 
has arguably been leading the way when 
it comes to the promotion of best practice. 
Ulster Bank has been heavily involved 
in education regarding the changeover through 
a number of programmes, publications and 
events, and through their sponsorship of 
the 
IBEC/EAN code of practice
 they have helped to shape what is best practice in 
the retail industry and beyond.
Earlier this year they were involved 
with the "Chamber Changeover Programme", 
which went through precisely what should 
be done regarding switching to the euro 
with both the Chambers of Commerce of Ireland 
(CCI) and individual chambers around the 
country. They are also, along with IBEC, 
SFA, Forfas and the chambers, involved 
in a roadshow, where customers are invited 
to a three hour workshop to discuss every 
aspect of the changeover. "One organisation 
probably wouldn't have been able to put 
it on by itself," said Pat McArdle, Head 
of Economic Research at Ulster Bank. "It 
is a very hands on workshop, and involves 
a lot of organisation and resources."
As well as the events and workshops, 
Ulster Bank have sponsored a number of 
publications, including booklets with the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland, 
the Small Firms Association and IBEC - 
indeed the bank sponsors the IBEC/EAN code 
of practice, which McArdle describes as 
"possibly the most extensive of all the 
various codes of practice."
There are a number of different sectoral 
codes in existence in the country. From 
the banking side of things, there is the 
	 
IBF/IMSA Standard of Good Practice
IBF/IMSA Standard of Good Practice on bank 
charges for conversion to the euro and 
dual display of amounts. There is the Food, 
Drink and Tobacco Federation code for the 
grocery trade, there are codes for the 
book trade and the Insurance sector and 
there is the Ulster Bank sponsored IBEC/EAN 
Code of Practice and Guidelines for the 
retail trade. In addition, the ODCA has 
produced their National Code of Practice, 
which is also an umbrella code for all 
of these, but, as McArdle says, "the earlier 
sectoral codes such as the grocery and 
banking ones were in place even before 
the National one and bank sector were amongst 
the first to introduce a voluntary code. 
Indeed, the code for the banking sector 
has just been re-issued, because it was 
originally produced in 1998 and some aspects 
of the code have been updated and extended.
"Ulster Bank has been actively involved 
in the euro since 1996," said McArdle. 
"We sponsor the most widely used code 
and have done a lot of roadshows and seminars. 
We currently have a workshop involving 
over 80 events around Ireland. We have 
been described as the most active bank 
on the ground when it comes to the changeover. 
We subscribe to the IBF/IMSA Code of Practice 
and we try to ensure that best practice 
is followed, both in the bank and beyond."
 
 
