
 cahoot
 
 
 
 cahoot
 
 
 
 
 
 log 
 in apply 
 products shopping 
 
 mobile 
 banking about 
 us FAQs 
 contact 
 us 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 home 
 current account 
 credit card 
 flexible loan 
 savings and investments 
 insurance 
 mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cahoot
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
{ 
 more 
 about rates 
 } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The cahoot flexible loan account is very different to most 
 conventional loans. Apart from a minimum monthly repayment of 
 £50 or 1.75% of the outstanding balance (whichever is greater), 
 
 you decide when you want to use the money and how you want to pay it back.†
 
{ 
 more 
 } 
 
 
 
 
 
 Affordable payment protection 
 
 Your financial details are protected 
 with the latest security technology 
 
 Secure banking - however you access 
 your accounts 
 
{ 
 more 
 } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Typical flexible loan 8.0% APR (variable). 
 All rates are correct as of 13 August 2001 and may vary. 
	
	 
**The credit limit you are given will be based 
 on the amount you request, your credit rating and credit history.
	
 
† A minimum monthly payment is required 
 which will be the greater of £50 (or the full outstanding balance if less 
 than £50) or 1.75% of the outstanding balance. If you are late (3 working 
 days) in making this payment we will charge a fee of £25.00. Other charges 
 are £2 for paper statements. A variable amount will be charged for other 
 non-standard services provided. With the cahoot flexible loan, interest 
 is only charged on any outstanding amount. Interest is not calculated 
 and added to the amount you borrow at the outset.
 
cahoot flexible loans are available, subject 
 to status, to UK residents who are aged 21 or over and who have regular 
 Internet access. Written quotations are available on request from contact.us@cahoot.com.
 
In calculating the APRs we have ignored any changes to the interest rates, fees or charges which we may introduce or vary. The exact rate or fee will be determined by your credit rating and credit requirements.
 
cahoot is a division of Abbey National plc. Abbey National plc is registered in England, registered number 2294747. Registered Office: Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square, Regent’s Place, London, NW1 3AN
 
 
 
 
 
