
Northern Rock plc - Investor Relations . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of 
 use of the Northern Rock plc web site 
 
 Your access to 
 and use of the Northern Rock plc web site - this site - is subject to 
 the following terms and conditions which, by accessing and browsing 
 this site, you accept without any limitation or qualification.
 
 General Disclaimer
 
 The information 
 on the pages of this site is provided by Northern Rock plc as a service 
 to the public and is intended merely to give a general overview of Northern 
 Rock plc. Whilst Northern Rock plc has endeavoured to ensure that all 
 the information on this site is correct, no representation or warranty 
 (express or implied) is given as to its accuracy or completeness and 
 Northern Rock plc accepts no liability for any statement, inaccuracy 
 or omission. For this reason, you should neither rely nor act upon any 
 of the information on this site and, if you do, it will be entirely 
 at your own risk. Northern Rock plc accepts no liability for any direct, 
 special, indirect or consequential damages or any other damages of any 
 kind resulting from the use of any information obtained directly or 
 indirectly from this site. All such liability is excluded to the fullest 
 extent permitted by law.
 
The information 
 on this site is subject to change at any time without notice.
 
 No Invitation 
 or Recommendation to invest
 
 No information 
 on this site constitutes or shall be deemed to constitute an invitation 
 or recommendation to invest or otherwise deal in shares or other securities 
 in Northern Rock plc and the information contained herein does not constitute 
 an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any such securities. 
 Nothing contained in this site is an "investment advertisement" 
 for the purposes of the UK Financial Services Act 1986 nor does any 
 statement in this site constitute investment advice. If you are considering 
 an investment, you should make your own, independent assessment and 
 take appropriate professional advice.
 
 General
 
 This site is controlled 
 and operated by Northern Rock plc from its offices in the UK. Some content 
 may be provided by approved sub-contractors and should be treated as 
 if it was on any of Northern Rock&#146;s own sites. Northern Rock plc 
 makes no representation that material in the site is appropriate or 
 available for use in other locations. Those who choose to access this 
 site from other locations do so on their own initiative and are responsible 
 for compliance with local laws, if and to the extent that local laws 
 are applicable.
 
This site, and these 
 conditions, are governed by English law. Any disputes arising from this 
 site shall be resolved by the English courts, unless you can show you 
 accessed the site from Scotland in which case the Scottish courts may 
 be used.
 
 Our details
 
 Northern Rock plc. 
 Registered office: Northern Rock House, Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
 NE3 4PL. Registered number 3273685.
 
 
 
 back to top © Northern Rock plc 2002 
