
Yorkshire Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Your Questions Answered 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal > Online Personal Loans > Your Questions Answered
 
Online Personal Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Questions Answered
	 
	 
	 
- How Much Can I Borrow?
	 
- How Long Can I have to Repay the Personal Loan?
	 
- Is my online application safe?
	 
- What happens to my online application when I submit
	 it?
	 
- How quickly can I find out if my online application
	 has been successful?
	 
	 
 How Much Can I Borrow?
	 
 With a Personal Loan, you can apply to borrow from £500 up to
	 £25,000. Once you have decided how much you would like to borrow,
	 we will be able to help you choose the term to suit you best. Terms range
	 from 6 months up to 84 months.
	 
	 
How Long Can I Have to Repay the Personal Loan?
	 
 As part of our flexible approach to banking, we can give you a choice
	 as to how quickly you pay back the loan, making sure it is over a period
	 you feel comfortable with. It can vary from a minimum of 6 months up to
	 84 months.
	 
	 
Is my online application safe?
	 
When you send us an online application, it is sent over a secure connection.
	 This means your personal information is encrypted to help prevent it being
	 accessed by anyone except us. This is far more secure than many things
	 we do every day and take for granted, such as paying for goods and services
	 over the phone with credit cards.
	 
	 
What happens to my online application when I submit it?
	 
Once you submit an online application form, we will then process it and
	 reply to you with a decision by telephone. If successful, we will send
	 you the relevant documents which you then sign and return along with any
	 supporting documentation (eg wage slips). Once we have received this,
	 the money is released into your account. As the Consumer Credit Act requires
	 that you sign a copy of your loan agreement, we send out the documentation
	 rather than issue it online.
	 
	 
How quickly can I find out if my online application has
	 been successful?
	 
We can usually let you know within one working day.
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 Important 
 Information 
 
Written quotations are available on request. Loans 
 are subject to status and the rate at which we lend 
 will reflect our assessment of your personal circumstances 
 and your chosen loan amount. Applicants must be aged 
 18 or over. 
 
A typical fixed Personal Loan of £5500 including optional 
 Payment Protection Insurance of £968.14 over 48 months 
 (13.9% APR) is 
 repayable by 47 monthly instalments of £173.84 and one 
 payment of £173.42. Total amount repayable £8343.90. 
 
 
A typical fixed Personal Loan of £5500 over 48 months 
 (13.9% APR) is 
 repayable by 47 monthly instalments of £147.82 and one 
 payment of £147.46. Total amount repayable £7095.00. 
 
 
The APR varies depending on the amount and length of 
 the loan and the repayment dates. Rates are correct 
 at 8 September 2001. 
 
This is a typical example of a selected repayment at 
 our typical APR.
 
The interest is tiered and based on the loan amount 
 requested, excluding any amount for Payment Protection 
 Insurance. Any amount borrowed for Payment Protection 
 Insurance will be deducted from the total loan advanced.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 	
	
	© Yorkshire Bank PLC 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
 
