
 cahoot
 
 
 
 cahoot
 
 
 
 
 
 log 
 in apply 
 products shopping 
 
 mobile 
 banking about 
 us FAQs 
 contact 
 us 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 home 
 current account credit card 
 flexible loan 
 savings and investments 
 insurance 
 mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cahoot
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
{
 
more about rates 
}
 
 
 
 
	
 
 { find out more } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flexible repayment options to choose from with ability to switch options at any time 
 
Transfer any existing card balances 
 
Up to six weeks interest free credit 
 
Use your webcard to shop online without your plastic 
 
{
 
more 
}
 
 
 
 
 
Bank online or use our mobile banking and automated telephone services, 24 hours a day 
 
Receive personalised account alerts via email and mobile text messaging 
 
Use over 500,000 VISA cash machines worldwide 
 
{
 
more 
}
 
 
 
 
 
Free purchase protection 
 
The latest technology to safeguard your details 
 
Secure banking - however you access your accounts 
 
{
 
more 
}
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
&#134;Whilst we aim to provide 24 hour access to your accounts, 	this service may very occassionally be reduced, for example when improvements / updates are made to the 	site.
cahoot offers three credit card charging options, 
 each with interest rate and/or fee combinations tailored to your particular 
 credit rating and credit requirements. Typical examples based on a credit 
 limit of £3000 are 8.0% APR for option 1; 0.3275% monthly 
 interest and a monthly fee of £7.80 for option 2, representing a 
 7.2% APR; a monthly fee of £15.60 for option 3, representing 
 a 6.4% APR. Interest rates and fees are variable. A minimum monthly 
 payment is required which will be the greater of £10 (or the full 
 outstanding balance if less than £10) or 3% of the outstanding balance. 
 If you are late (3 working days) in making this payment we may impose 
 a fee of £25. Other charges are listed in our 
 terms and conditions.
* APR - annual percentage rate - represents 
 the rate for the total charge for credit as determined in accordance with 
 the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In calculating the APRs we have ignored 
 any changes to the interest rates, fees or charges which we may introduce 
 or vary. The exact rate or fee will be determined by your credit rating 
 and credit requirements. Rates correct as of 13 August 2001.
**Cash advances will incur a 1.5% fee (minimum 
 £1.50). Non-sterling advances will incur an additional charge of 
 2.25% and non-sterling purchases will be subject to a 2.25% commission 
 charge.
cahoot accounts are available, subject to status, 
 to UK residents who are aged 21 or over and who have regular Internet 
 access. Written quotations are available on request from contact.us@cahoot.com
cahoot is a division of Abbey National plc. Abbey National plc is registered in England, 
registered number 2294747. Registered Office: Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square, Regent’s 
Place, London, NW1 3AN
 
 
 
 
 
