
	Terms and Conditions
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms and conditions
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland ("Bank of Scotland") 
Terms and conditions of use and access of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website 
The use and access of pages of the Internet Website of the Bank of Scotland ("Bank of Scotland's Internet Website") is subject to the terms and conditions set out below. Please take a moment to read these terms and conditions carefully. By using or accessing any of the Bank of Scotland's Internet Website, you agree to be bound by the following terms and conditions. 
Copyright
©The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland 1999. The copyright and material on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website is owned by Bank of Scotland and protected by the copyright laws of the United Kingdom. The material on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website may only be used by those who access it from the United Kingdom and such users will be entitled to copy any such information for their own personal use but may not republish, store or reproduce any such information in any manner, including without limitation electronic reproduction by "uploading" or "downloading", without the prior written consent of Bank of Scotland. Any unauthorised downloading, retransmission, or other copying or modification of any of the contents of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website may be in breach of statutory or common law rights which could be the subject of legal action. Bank of Scotland disclaims all liability which may result from any unauthorised reproduction or use of the information on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website. All rights not expressly granted herein are reserved by Bank of Scotland. Certain images © Photodisc 1998. 
Trade marks
The logo, Bank of Scotland, Bank of Scotland Banking Direct, a friend for life, Keycard, Autoteller, HOBS, Super Squirrel, Bank of Scotland Mortgages Direct and TAPS are registered trademarks of the Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland. Certain names, words, titles, phrases, logos, icons, graphics or designs to the pages of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website may constitute trade names or unregistered trade marks of Bank of Scotland. The display of any of the above trade names or trade marks on pages of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website does not imply that any licence has been granted to any third party in respect of the same. All other product or company names and devices, logos, icons, graphics or designs referred to on the pages of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website are the trade marks of their respective owners and are exhibited only in such a manner as is intended to be for the benefit of such trade mark owners and Bank of Scotland intends no infringement of such trade marks. The appearance or absence of products, services, companies, organisations, home pages or other Websites on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website does not imply any endorsement or non-endorsement thereof by Bank of Scotland. All rights not expressly granted herein are reserved by Bank of Scotland. 
Liability for damages
Bank of Scotland shall not be liable for any direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, including the loss of profits, business revenue or goodwill arising from the use or access of or inability to use or access, interruption or availability of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website, its operation or transmission, computer viruses, loss of data or otherwise in respect of its use or the downloading or use of any software made available by Bank of Scotland on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website and Bank of Scotland shall not be liable for and each user shall indemnify and keep indemnified on demand Bank of Scotland from and against all claims, expenses, losses or liabilities (including professional fees and expenses) in connection with any claim by a third party relating to the use or downloading of the software or data or arising from such use or downloading. 
Any exclusions or limitations or restrictions of liability contained in these terms and conditions of use and access of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website shall be subject to the qualification that nothing contained in any such exclusion or limitations or restrictions of liability shall operate to exclude or restrict any duty or liability of the Bank of Scotland to any person which it has under the Financial Services Act 1986 (as the same may be amended from time to time) (the "Act") or under the rules of any relevant self-regulating organisation (as the term is defined in the Act) (whether or not laid down by the self-regulating organisation itself), as altered, amended, added to or cancelled from time to time, which such organisation has power to enforce and to which the Bank of Scotland is subject by virtue of its membership of the relevant self-regulating organisation. 
Warranties
The software, information, materials and functions contained in Bank of Scotland's Internet Website including text, graphics, links or other items are provided on an "as is" basis excluding any warranty whatsoever, express or implied, including but not limited to warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose or freedom from computer viruses. The software made available on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website has been prepared solely for demonstration purposes and shall not be used for any other purposes whatsoever. Bank of Scotland excludes any liability for any errors in or omissions from information, materials and functions included in Bank of Scotland's Internet Website or any third party Websites linked to or from Bank of Scotland's Internet Website.
Jurisdiction 
The Bank of Scotland Internet Website is intended to be accessed only by persons located in the UK (except for information relating to certain products and services offered by Bank of Scotland Offshore Limited which are only available to persons located outwith the UK) and Bank of Scotland makes no representation that any information, materials or functions included in Bank of Scotland's Internet Website are appropriate for use in any other jurisdiction. However, if you are unsure whether the products and services referred to on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website are available to you, please email us with a general enquiry.
Security of personal data
Bank of Scotland is concerned about the security of your personal information when using Bank of Scotland's Internet Website. We have created this security statement to explain our information gathering and dissemination practices for Bank of Scotland's Internet Website. 
As the Internet is not a secure medium of communication, Bank of Scotland cannot guarantee the security of any information you input on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website or send to us on the Internet. Bank of Scotland is not, and will not be, responsible for any damages you or others may suffer as a result of the loss of confidentiality of any such information. 
We do not transmit ''cookies'' from this website to your computer, however, some of the web content and services developed in conjunction with third parties and provided by them may do so. You will be advised what information will be collected, the purpose for collecting the information and the method of collection by those third parties on their websites. 
Links to other Websites
The provision by Bank of Scotland of a link to another Website does not constitute any authorisation by Bank of Scotland to the user to access material held at that location, nor is it evidence of any endorsement by Bank of Scotland of the material held there. Bank of Scotland accepts no responsibility or liability for the privacy of your personal information on such Websites, as these are beyond our control. Bank of Scotland will accept no responsibility or liability in respect of any materials on any Website which is not under its control. 
Accessing / using Bank of Scotland's Internet Website 
Bank of Scotland's Internet Website is designed to be accessed via its principal homepages, and not direct to individual pages. If you access individual pages directly, you may not see important information and warnings which are necessary for a full understanding of our products and services and Bank of Scotland generally. As you use Bank of Scotland's Internet Website, you will find words in the text which are a different colour from the normal text and are underlined. These are links or shortcuts to other pages and if you click on them they will take you to those pages. A number of these links refer you to important legal or regulatory information which should be read in conjunction with the text in which the link appears. Bank of Scotland accepts no responsibility or liability for improper use of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website. 
Unless the contrary is explicitly stated in the case of any product or service, Bank of Scotland's Internet Website contains only a summary of the information relating to the products and services referred to on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website. Therefore, if you are interested in finding out all of the information in relation to any of the products or services, you should seek further information from Bank of Scotland by any of the methods indicated on the pages describing the products and services. 
Nothing on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website is intended to constitute advice to you. 
Problems experienced using Bank of Scotland's Internet Website
Bank of Scotland's Internet Website has been extensively tested and we hope that it works properly at all times. However, if you experience a problem at any time, please return to the homepage from where you entered Bank of Scotland's Internet Website and try again. It would be very helpful if you could report any problems to us by sending an email via the Website feedback facility.
Enforceability
In the event any provision of these terms and conditions of use and access of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website is held unenforceable, it will not affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions and will be replaced by an enforceable provision that comes the closest to the intention underlying the unenforceable provision. 
Reliability of information 
Information provided on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website is believed to be reliable when posted. However, Bank of Scotland cannot guarantee that information will be accurate, complete and current at all times. All information on Bank of Scotland's Internet Website is subject to modification from time to time without notice. 
Governing laws
The terms and conditions of use of Bank of Scotland's Internet Website shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Scotland. 
Head office 
Bank of Scotland, Head Office, The Mound, Edinburgh EH1 1YZ 
 
 
 
 
