
Northern Bank
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 Thursday, 27.06.02 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 First Time Buyers 
 
	
	 
 
 Rapid Repay 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 Switching Your Home Loan 
 
	
	 
 
 Base Rate Tracker 
 
	
	
	 
 
 Home Loans 
 
	
	 
 
 Buying Your First Home 
 
	 
 
 Moving or Upgrading Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Changing or Refinancing Your Home 
 
	 
 
 Arranging Your Loan 
 
	 
 
 Fees and Charges 
 
	 
 
 Budgeting 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
	 
 
 
Personal > Your Home > Fees and Charges
 
Your Home
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
Fees and Charges
	 
Following are the bank fees, stamp duty and some other fees that should be considered when budgeting:
	 
Arrangement fee: At Northern, our Tailored Home Loan arrangement fee covers the administrative expenses in setting up your Home Loan.
	 
Any other bank fees: At Northern we will be happy to explain any other fees that may apply.
	 
Stamp duty
	 Government stamp duty on the mortgage: Your local branch of the Northern can tell you how much this will be when your loan is settled.
	 
Other fees and costs
	 Conveyancing fees (legal fees on the purchase)This charge can vary depending on the complexity of the transaction. Northern provides an allowance of £250.00 to your legal fees.
	 
Rates and other adjustments: If you move into a property that has previously been occupied, some bills may have been paid for the year ahead. In that case, an adjustment or payment is necessary to compensate the seller for services they have paid for, but you will receive. Conversely, some bills that the seller should compensate you for may fall due after you move in. With adjustments, you won't know who has to pay whom until all the utilities have provided 'closing off' accounts.
	 
Building and contents insurance: The cost will vary depending on the extent of cover and the insurer you choose. Northen Home insurance can provide a number of advantages as well as the protection you need.
	 
Moving costs: You can do it yourself, but it's often best left to the professionals, so get several quotes from professional removal companies.
	 
Connection fees: Will often apply if you need to re-connect the telephone, electricity, gas and water supplies.
	 
Any vital repairs, new items of furniture or fittings you need before you can move in: complete with drapes, curtains and light fittings? If not, you may have to incur considerable expense to make the house a little more livable.
	 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 IMPORTANT INFORMATION
	 
The savings compare the Tailored Home Loan with our standard 25 year repayment Home Loan of the same amount.
	 
Written quotations are available on request. All loans are subject to status and applicants must be 18 or over. Security is required. One or more of the following policies may be required : Endowment, Pension Plan, Mortgage Guarantee.
	 
Interest rates and charges are correct as at 16 November 2001 but these may vary, which could affect repayments. Typical example : A Tailored Home Loan of £50,000 at 5.99% variable with 220 monthly repayments increased by approximately £50 to £375.00 saves £14,125.29 in interest charges and 6 years 8 months on the loan term. The APR 6.3% variable and total amount repayable £82,734.28 include £552.50 estimate for arrangement fee, legal and valuation costs. The maximum loan is 95%for First Time Buyers, 90% for existing property owners, based on the lower of the purchase price or valuation. For loans in excess of 90% of the lower of the cost or valuation of the property, Mortgage Guarantee Insurance is required.
	 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT
	 
Northern is a trading name of Northern Bank Limited and is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. It is a member of the National Australia Bank Group. It represents only the National Australia Life Marketing Group, whose companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for the purpose of advising on and selling life assurance products, pensions, adopted stakeholder pensions, ISAs and collective investment products. The sale and advice on personal loans, general insurance products and mortgages are not currently regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	 
Northern Bank Limited, Registered in Northern Ireland No. R568, Registered Office: Donegall Square West, Belfast, BT1 6JS.
	 
Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	© Northern Bank Limited 2001. Use of the information contained on this page is subject to certain rules. To view the Rules of Use, click here. 
 
 
 
