
 
 
 
Home
 > RoI
 
Legal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Finances
 
Corporate Banking and Financial Markets
 
Small Business
 
EURO
 
What's New
 
Jobs in Ulster Bank Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Group Websites
Anytime Internet
Lombard & Ulster
NCB Direct
Trader Gold
 
 
 
 
Back to What's New
 
This article by Helen Curley appeared in 
Business & Finance on 11 October 2001.
Business & Finance Article
Surveys conducted by Forfas and others 
involved in the introduction of the euro 
indicate the paucity of preparations for 
the euro. According to Forfas, there is 
a high general awareness but little evidence 
that this has been translated into practical 
action, particularly within the SME sector. 
Indications are that most businesses will not 
convert until the very end of the transition 
period on 31st December 2001. Experts believe 
that the fallout from the millennium bug 
has influenced this laissez faire attitude. 
However, it's a very high-risk approach 
for businesses to take; the predicted damage 
by the Y2K bug never materialised whereas 
the advent of the euro is inevitable. 
It's still not too late for businesses 
to tackle euro preparations, but they need 
to start arming themselves with information 
immediately. On a financial front, one 
of the most accessible and likely places 
to start looking is the bank. Ulster Bank 
is arguably to the forefront in promoting 
preparations for euro banking. It has accepted 
an invitation from the European Central 
Bank to work together with the Central 
Bank of Ireland and become an official 
euro partner in helping ensure the smooth 
introduction of euro banknotes and coins 
in January 2002.
The bank has also been heavily involved 
in preparing its own customers for the 
past five years. "Ulster Bank has a very 
strong track record in relation to EMU 
and the euro," says Pat McArdle, Ulster 
Bank's Head of Economic Research and Euro 
Communications. "We have been operating 
in euros since January 1, 1999, and have 
an extensive communications programme regarding 
the euro for our customers," he adds. 
As part of this extensive communications 
programme, the bank has dedicated a significant 
part of its website to the introduction 
of the euro and has implemented an exhaustive 
timetable of seminars on the euro, which 
are being hosted nationwide (click
here
to view the schedule of workshops). 
It has also produced what could 
be called the definitive guide on the introduction 
of the euro in banking - 
Euro Banking Made Easy
- written by Pat McArdle. This comprehensive 
guide deals with the following topics:
- The timetable to the new currency introduction
- Key dates with recommendations as to the actions to be taken
- Charges and the bank's commitment to customers
- Early conversion and the facilities the bank offers
- Changeover advice for personal customers
- Changeover advice for business customers
- Retailers - important messages
- Sources of Euro information
A look at its advice for business customers 
shows how comprehensive an overview the 
guide gives on euro banking. The section 
includes information on hold accounts, 
cheques, lodgments, electronic banking 
services, doing business abroad and non-banking 
issues.
The guide notes that retailers and other 
cash-based customers have a special role 
in the changeover to the euro. While many 
of the issues that arise are similar to 
those for other sectors of the community, 
there are significant additional banking 
matters that retailers will have to address, 
and the guide goes on to detail these.
Businesses would be well advised to 
obtain a copy of this valuable guide from 
their local Ulster Bank branch. It can 
be viewed on screen at the bank's website
www.ulsterbank.com
or can be downloaded 
as a pdf file. Copies of the guide are 
also available at Ulster Bank branches.
 
 
