
The Co-operative Bank plc
 
	
Business Visa Card
The convenient way to manage expenses
 
 
	
	 
	 
	
	
Convenient and cost-effective
The Business Visa Card is designed to provide you with a convenient and flexible way to manage your business expenses - and the most effective method of budgetary control.
Flexibility for employees
The card is welcome at over 15 million outlets worldwide - wherever you see the Visa symbol.
It can be used to withdraw local currency from Visa cash machines in 240 countries worldwide*.
It includes Purchase Protection Insurance against loss, damage, theft and the cost of replacement or repair for up to 90 days. Cardholders are covered for up to £750 for one item and up to £10,000 per year with an excess of £50 for each claim, on items not covered by other insurance.
And the Emergency Assistance and Travel Services package helps to minimise any problems encountered whilst travelling.
	
	 
	 
	
	
Control for you
You agree an overall credit limit for your company plus individual limits for each cardholder. So you're always in control.
You then receive regular reports, enabling you to monitor individual and company spending levels.
Reports showing annual, quarterly and monthly expenditure are included. Additional reports are available for a small fee.
Exclusive offers**
Business Visa cardholders can take advantage of the exclusive offers the Co-operative Bank has arranged and at no extra cost, providing payments for goods and services are made in full using the Business Visa card.
Business Visa offers exceptional value for money even after the six month fee free period when a £2 per card monthly fee will be charged.
Click here
for detailed information on these offers.
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
* Cash advances are subject to a 2% handling charge and an overseas transaction charge, if appropriate, and are dependent on the cardholder's credit limit and any local currency restrictions.
** Exclusive offers are only available for Business Visa Customers.
The Co-operative Bank's Business Visa card is currently only available to existing business account holders.
 
 
 
