Bank of Scotland
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	home >
	relationship banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Home 
	
	
	 
	Relationship Banking 
	
	
	 
	Corporate Banking Products 
	
	
	 
	Specialist Funding 
Solutions 
	
	
	 
	International 
	
	
	 
	Corporate Finance Newsletter 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	If your company is facing an unusual situation, it can be frustrating when all that's on offer from some banks are standardised solutions, none of which quite work. As is having to explain your business from scratch to yet another new face who understands nothing more about your organisation than a row of figures on a page.
	
At Bank of Scotland, we solve these problems before they happen with one simple philosophy - relationship banking. Long term relationships are central to the ethos of our Corporate Banking Division. With this strong relationship culture as our foundation, we can create innovative and individualised solutions to the often complex banking needs of our corporate customers. We keep our internal lines of communication as short as possible, to give you quick, constructive responses to your requirements.
As a customer you are assigned a skilled and experienced director who can handle your day to day banking requirements, as well as acting as a hub for any specialist services you may want to call on. We encourage a creative approach to problem-solving and by working closely with you, your key Bank of Scotland contacts can build up a real knowledge and understanding of the unique aspects of your business and your markets.
As well as providing information on any specialist services required, your relationship director can advise on a full range of corporate banking products. With the support of your director, a suite of products tailored to suit your own particular financial requirements could be put in place.
Corporate Banking Products
We offer a range of banking products and services to help you run your business day to day, including:
	
	
	 
	Corporate deposit services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Payment services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Electronic banking services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Specialist services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Asset Finance provided by Bank of Scotland Asset Finance 
	
	
	
	Corporate Deposit Services
	
	When you have surplus cash, you require competitive rates and the assurance of dealing with one of the UK's premier financial institutions. But when you need the cash back to work in the business, easy accessibility is essential. With dedicated service from a specialist Corporate Deposit team, in your area, on standby to respond instantly to your requests, Bank of Scotland brings you the ultimate cash management solution, giving you absolute control of your sterling funds. 
Payment Services
Bank of Scotland offers a range of payment services allowing customers to transfer funds to third parties electronically, both in the UK and worldwide, to settle suppliers invoices, make commission payments, pay wages, salaries and expenses, and undertake other transactions. 
Electronic Banking Services
Our electronic banking services give you control and flexibility over the management of your money, providing full electronic banking from your home and office via PC. The range of services includes balance checks of all your bank, credit cards and foreign currency accounts, funds transfer and the payment of bills or salaries by BACS (Bankers' Automated Clearing System). CORPORATE HOBS® also provides same-day CHAPS (Clearing Houses Automated Payment System) payments and International payments and drafts.
Specialist Services
Bank of Scotland offers a range of tailored services to suit your specific business requirements, for example, Business Financial Planning, Business Insurance and Payroll and Human Resource Service.
Asset Finance 
Bank of Scotland Asset Finance offers individual packages designed to allow you to acquire the assets your business needs with a finance package that is cash flow-friendly and tax-efficient. 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Integrated Finance
	The alternative to traditional debt solutions 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Joint Ventures
	Strategic alliances with key customers 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Contact us: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Offices and contacts 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Email 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Other Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	HBOS plc Group Info 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Business Banking 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Treasury Services 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	EURO Services 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
