
 
HSBC : Personal Banking : Saving and Investing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saving 
 and investing 
 
 
 
 Regular 
 savings 
 
 
 
 Lump 
 sum investments 
 
 
 
 Tax 
 free savings 
 
 
 
 Buying and selling shares 
 
 
 
 Help 
 and advice 
 
 
 
 Investment 
 funds 
 
 	 
 
 Next Steps 
 
	 
 
 Foreign currency savings accounts 
 
 
 
 Important 
 notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important notes 
 
 
 The information on this 
 site is based on our understanding of current law and Inland Revenue 
 practice at the time of going to press. Future changes in legislation, 
 tax levels and practice could affect the information on this site.
 
Calls made to telephone numbers on this site may be recorded or monitored. 
 This is for security reasons and to ensure the quality of our 
 service is maintained. 
 
HSBC Bank plc is a member of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
	 As at 31 December 1999, our paid-up capital and reserves were £4,868 million. 
	 We are a principle member of the HSBC Group, one of the world's largest banking and financial services organisations. 
	 In respect of deposits with a UK office, 
	 payments under the Scheme are limited to 100% of the first £2000 of a depositor's total deposits with the bank and 90% of the next £33,000, resulting in a maximum payment of £31,700. 
	 Most depositors, including individuals and small firms, are covered. 
	 The Scheme covers deposits made with the offices of the bank within the 
	 European Economic Area and deposits denominated in all currencies are treated alike. 
	 Further details of the Scheme are available upon request.
 
Gross: The rate before the deduction of applied 
 interest on savings. 
 
 Net: The rate after the deduction of tax 
 on interest on savings, currently 20%. Higher rate taxpayers will 
 have an additional liability. 
 
AER: Annual Equivalent Rate, the true gross 
 return taking into account the frequency of interest payments. 
 
 
We reserve the right to decline an account 
 application. Our credit facilities are subject to status and our 
 mortgages are also subject to security. With a mortgage or other 
 secured loan a charge will be taken over the property and appropriate 
 life policy(ies).
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK 
 IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOANS 
 SECURED ON IT.
 
 Our funds are Open-Ended Investment Companies 
 (OEICs). Each OEIC has a selection of sub funds, which invest 
 in a range of stocks and shares. As with any investment related 
 to stocks and shares it is possible that its value may fall below 
 the amount originally invested as the price of units/shares and 
 the income from them can go down as well as up. This may also 
 happen as a result of changes in the rate of exchange where overseas 
 securities are held. The value of shares can go down as well as 
 up. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. 
 Because of the cost of buying and selling stock market investments, 
 which will impact on the value of your investment in the short 
 term, you should regard all stock market investments as medium 
 to long term. 
 
HSBC Bank plc is a member of the London Stock 
 Exchange, regulated in its investment business by the Securities 
 and Futures Authority and covered by the Investors Compensation 
 Scheme (ICS). Under the scheme, in the event of our being unable 
 to meet our liabilities in full, the maximum claim payable is 
 £48,000. Further information is available from the Financial Service 
 Authority, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS, 
 or ICS, 2-4 Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8LP. 
 
With variable rate savings accounts, the interest 
 paid by the bank will alter from time to time. This means that 
 when the interest rate rises, the interest you receive will increase, 
 but it will become less when the interest rate falls. 
 
 Our OEICs are provided by HSBC Investment 
 Funds (UK) Limited, which is regulated by the Personal Investment 
 Authority and the Investment Management Regulatory Organisational 
 Limited (IMRO). It is a member of the Association of Unit Trusts 
 and Investment Funds (AUTIF). A company prospectus, and other 
 information on our OEICs are available on request from HSBC Investment 
 Funds (UK) Limited, 5th Floor, City Plaza, 2 Pinfold Street, Sheffield 
 S1 2QZ.
 
FTSE is a trademark of the London Stock Exchange 
 Limited and the Financial Times Limited and is used by FTSE International 
 Limited under licence.
 
 The FTSE 100 Index is calculated by FTSE 
 International Limited in conjunction with the Institute of Actuaries. 
 FTSE International Limited does not sponsor, endorse or promote 
 this product. All copyright in the index values and constituent 
 list vests in FTSE International Limited.
 
HSBC 
 Asset Management (Europe) Limited are the investment managers 
 for our OEICs. They are regulated by IMRO.
 
 
 Private Clients services are provided by HSBC Trust Company (UK) 
 Limited which is regulated by the Personal Investment Authority. 
 
 
HSBC 
 Bank plc is regulated by the Personal Investment Authority. We 
 only advise on our own life assurance, pensions, unit trusts and 
 open ended investment companies. 
 
Further information and written details about 
 our products and services are available from any of our branches 
 or from Customer Information, PO Box 757, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire 
 HP2 4SS. 
 
We 
 may contact you with information about the services of the HSBC 
 Group* we feel may be of interest to you. If you would prefer 
 not to receive marketing promotions and hold an account with us 
 please contact your branch. If you do not hold an account with 
 us, please write to us at: Customer Information, Department FDB, 
 Park 17, Moss Lane, Whitefield, Manchester M45 8SH.
 
 
 * The HSBC Group means HSBC Holdings plc, its subsidiaries and 
 its associated companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
