
 
	. 
	 
 
 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 Introduction
Main features
How it all works
A savings account
A current account
Connections options
Flexibility Who is eligible?
Valuations and surveys
How much you can borrow
Ways to repay your mortgage
How long your loan will last
Repaying your loan
What about insurance? How the whole process works
The Mortgage Code
Summary of main conditions
Customers with a disability
The small print
How to apply
What's it going to cost? 
REPAYING YOUR LOAN
When it comes to making your monthly mortgage and unsecured loan payments things couldn't be simpler. The total of the payments due to be made to us on the mortgage and unsecured balances are added together and collected from your bank each month by Direct Debit. As soon as we have received your monthly payment we will automatically apportion it between your mortgage and unsecured loan elements.
When your mortgage has started, we will ask you to send us a cheque to cover the interest charged on the mortgage between the day the monies are sent to your solicitor/licensed conveyancer and the end of that first month.
As your loan payments are due on the 1st of each month we ask that they be made by Direct Debit from your bank account or, if you have one, your Northern Rock Current Account.
To allow your bank adequate time to accept your new Direct Debit instruction we will not collect your first full monthly repayment until about the 7th of the month following your loan completion date. Subsequently, payments will be collected on the 1st of each calendar month.
When your monthly loan payment is due to change e.g. as a result of an interest rate change, following a payment holiday or after release of some of your unsecured credit facility, we will inform you and automatically collect the new payment from your bank account.
If you have had a request for a payment holiday approved, we will automatically suspend collection of your monthly payment(s) by Direct Debit.
All loans must be repaid by Direct Debit or be subject to an annual charge. The first charge will be debited to the loan account on completion of the mortgage and subsequently on the anniversary of completion. This charge will also apply where a Direct Debit is subsequently cancelled and replaced with another payment method. See the What's it going to cost? page for details. 
 If you are unable to make your loan payments by Direct Debit, they may be made by standing order from your bank account. If you do choose to make payments by standing order, you will be responsible for changing the amount sent to us each time that your loan payment alters or when you wish to underpay, overpay or take a payment holiday. 
together connections has been designed with maximum repayment flexibility in mind. This means that you are able to repay fully either the mortgage or unsecured loan whenever you choose - and, unlike some loan plans, you may repay your loan without incurring an Early Repayment Charge. Interest is charged only to the day on which repayment of your loan takes place. together connections is 'portable', which means the terms and conditions of this mortgage can be transferred to your new property if you decide to move home. 
 If you are in a position to repay your mortgage earlier than originally planned but wish to keep your unsecured credit facility, you may do so. In this event, the rate of interest charged to your unsecured loan will automatically be increased to 3.00% above Northern Rock's Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate.
If you repay your unsecured loan in full at any time, the unsecured credit facility agreement will end irrespective of whether you have used the full amount agreed at the outset of the loan.
If you do not make an initial request to drawdown all or part of your unsecured credit facility and do not make such a request within five years of completion of the loan then we reserve the right to cancel your unsecured credit facility.
KEEPING TRACK
To help you monitor your loan, we will send you a quarterly statement showing the transactions that have taken place on your loan for the period ending 31 January, 30 April, 31 July and 31 October respectively. This will give you details of any overpayments to help manage your future payments and make the most of together connections. If you require replacement copies of previous statements we can provide these for a small charge.
Of course, you do not have to wait until you receive your statement before you make enquiries about your loan. Please ask - we are here to help. 
 Separate statements will be sent to you covering your Current account and Savings account transactions. 
PAYMENT DIFFICULTIES
We know that regardless of the care that most people take in planning their lives and finances, that the unforeseen can happen.
If you find yourself in financial difficulties, you should let us know as soon as possible.
We have a number of trained counsellors to assist borrowers experiencing difficulties in making payments.
Whilst we will always do all we can to help you overcome your difficulties, our own experience tells us that the sooner that you contact us the easier it will be for us to try to find a solution to your problems.
Even if a mutually acceptable solution seems to be impossible to achieve, we will follow the general principles of the Council of Mortgage Lender's Statement of Practice on Handling Arrears and Possessions.
This means, amongst other things, that possession of your property will be sought only as a last resort when attempts to reach alternative arrangements have been unsuccessful. 
 back top of page next 
 © Northern Rock plc 2001 
