	
	
	Capital District Visual Basic Users Group
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Home
	 
	
	
	
	Anouncements
	 
	
	
	
	Where and When?
	 
	
	
	
	Upcoming Events
	 
	
	
	
	Archived Events
	 
	
	
	
	Hot Lists
	 
	
	
	
	Knowledge Pages
	 
	
	
	
	User Groups
	 
	
	
	
	Events
	 
	
	
	
	Books & Learning Tools
	 
	
	
	
	Component Vendors
	 
	
	
	
	Recruiters
	 
	
	
	
	Find Us
	 
	
	
	
	Local Accomodations
	 
	
	
	
	Contact Us
	 
	
	
	
	Board of Directors
	 
	
	
	
	Sign Our Guest Book
	 
	
	
	
	Send Us Comments
	 
	
	
	
	Ideas for Future Meetings
	 
	
	
	
	I Want to do a Presentation
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Select a Year:
	
	----
	2001
	2000
	1999
	1998
	
	
	 
	
Archived Events - 2001
 
 
19-Dec-01
 
7th Annual Holiday Madness Party!!
 
 
 
Come celebrate our 7th annual event. True to our tradition, CDVBUG will have lots of give aways that have
been donated by various vendors, as well as members. We have been collecting all year for this fun event. Sharpen your expertise and
get your ready for this years' Games! There will be food, refreshments, trivia and time to party with fellow members. 
Bring friends, significants - Come one, come all!
LET THE GAMES BEGIN!
 
 
21-Nov-01
 
SQL Server 2000 - a Technical View
 
 
 
Presented by:
Jon McKinney of CMA
 
 
 
Jon will present SQL Server 2000 on a technical level showcasing the robust features such as:
English Query, Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) cubes, how to derive additional value from using sophisticated data mining tools that allow you
to recognize trends and make predictions from large data sets, XML functionality. 
 
 
17-Oct-01
 
Creating and Using Web Services -- Today
Presented by:
Jeff Polansky, CTO & Co-founder of Collector Online, part of the eBay network.
 
 
 
Start today and use and expose Web Services at your company. Web Services
are already with us. Microsoft Passport and the eBay APIs are being used
today along with many other Web Services. Hear and see why you should care.
Jeff Polansky will show lots of sample code using VB6 and production tools
available today. 
 
 
19-Sep-01
 
Microsoft
 
 
 
Presented by:
Jon McKinney
 of
Microsoft
 
 
 
Jon will present a lively discussion and overview of the long awaited .Net platform. 
 
 
20-Jun-01
 
UML Presentation
 
 
 
Presented by:
Russ Kehoe
 of
Flow Management Technologies
 
 
 
Russ will present a discussion on Unified Modeling Language UML geared for the Visual Basic programmer.
UML is a general-purpose notational language for specifying and visualizing complex software, especially large, object-oriented projects
Visio will be used as the tool for creating the object model. The UML and sample VB project will be available for download after the presentation.
 
 
16-May-01
 
INI Files for Dynamic Intranet Web Sites
 
 
 
Presented by: 
Joe Sweeney
 of 
Web-X Perqs, Inc.
 
 
 
Joe will demonstrated a process for maintaining dynamic configuration information on an Intranet using INI Files and the FileSystem object.
 
 
 
Download the code here
 (417k)
.
 
 
18-Apr-01
 
Database Presentation
 
 
 
Presented by: 
Marlin Pierce
 
 
 
A demonstration of the FlexGrid control with ADO.
 
 
21-Mar-01
 
SoftWIRE Graphical Programming for Visual Basic
 
 
 
Presented by: 
Bendrix Bailey
 of 
SoftWIRE Technology, LLC
 
 
 
Syntactical programming has been around since the early days of computers. More recently, graphical programming languages have been introduced and are now a popular alternative to writing hard core, text-based syntax. What's been lacking is an easy way to combine the speed and ease of use of graphical programming with the flexibility and efficiency of writing code in an industry standard language. Until now- Introducing SoftWIRE.
 
 
21-Feb-01
 
Coding With Class
 
 
 
Presented by: 
Wes Davis
 
 
 
Wes Davis will present a demo of a real-world solution that illustrates how & why you use classes instead of old-style VB code. Learn more about the use of public and private Enums and class collections.
 
 
17-Jan-01
 
Scalability and Performance in Enterprise Applications
 
 
 
Presented by: 
Sara Meredith
Times Union
 
 
 
Tips, techniques, design essentials, and other powerful approaches to enhance performance and achieve scalability in well-balanced enterprise applications. This will reach all levels of expertise and include information encapsulating Visual Basic 5.0/6.0, MTS, Active Server Pages, IIS, n-tier architecture.
 
 
 
Download the code here
 (115k)
.
 
 
 
