
Mastering Visual Basic
 
 VB 120
 Mastering Visual Basic
 A free course of study at Free-Ed.Net 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2001, Free-Ed, Ltd
All rights Reserved 
 
 
 
 
[ BASIC &
 Visual Basic Office ] [Free-Ed.Net Home ] 
 
 
 
Lessons
 (Select one)
 
Lesson 1 Visual Basic at Work
Lesson 2 Analyzing Visual Basic Programs 
Lesson 3 Controls and Properties 
Lesson 4 Examining Labels, Buttons, and Text Boxes
Lesson 5 Putting Code into Visual Basic 
Lesson 6 Improving Code: Message and Input Boxes 
Lesson 7 Making Decisions 
Lesson 8 Visual Basic Looping
Lesson 9 Combining Code and Controls 
Lesson 10 List Boxes and Data Lists 
Lesson 11 Additional Controls
Lesson 12 Dialog Box Basics
Lesson 13 Modular Programming 
Lesson 14 Built-in Functions Save Time 
Lesson 15 Visual Basic Database Basics 
Lesson 16 Printing with Visual Basic
Lesson 17 Menus in VB Applications 
Lesson 18 The Graphic Image Controls 
Lesson 19 Toolbars and More Graphics 
Lesson 20 Writing Correct Applications
Lesson 21 Visual Basic and ActiveX 
Lesson 22 Object Basics
Lesson 23 Distributing Your Applications 
Lesson 24 Online Visual Basic
 
 
About this Course
 
This is a complete course in VB programming.
 The required equipment and materials are:
 
- A Windows-compatable PC
 
- Windows 95 or 98 installed
 
- Microsoft Visual Basic 5 or 6 installed
 
 
The assignments deal with VB version 5.
 Version 6 was released in late 1998, but there are no significant problems using either
 version for this course.
 
The course is presently built around the
 online version of Greg Perry's book, Teach Yourself Visual Basic 5 in 24 Hours.
 This doesn't really mean anyone can complete the course in a single 24-hour day, however.
 Students who have little programming experience can expect to spend between 1 and 2 hours
 on each lesson, including the time for doing the hands-on examples and exercises. Typical
 completion time for the course is about 1 quarter, or 12 weeks.
 
How to Take This
 Course
 
Bookmark this page--it is the
 starting point for each lesson. Then click on the lesson (over there in the left-hand
 column) you want to study. That will take you to a study guide for that lesson. The
 instructions should be clear at that point. 
 
