 A{text-decoration: none;}
 A:hover { color: blue; text-decoration: underline; }
 
 
Databases
 
In short, Databases hold 
 data. You can retrieve data, add data, delete data, edit data etc, etc. There 
 are many different types of Databases around, especially today. Many common 
 ones include MS Access, dBASE, Excel, FoxPro, Lotus, Paradox and Text files 
 (we will be dealing with MS Access and text databases). Not only can we create 
 databases in MS Access (which has VBA in it; VB for Applications) and of coarse 
 all of the rest of the mentioned apps above, but there is also a way to create 
 databases in VB... And that would be through the "Visual Data Manager," 
 which is located under the "Add-Ins" menu in VB.
 
The 'Data' 
 Control
 In order for us to get access to data in databases we will use 
 the 'Data' control, which can be found on a standard VB toolbox. You should 
 be familiar with some of the data control's properties as they can be found 
 in some of the common controls (i.e. textbox, command button etc.). However, 
 there are a quite a few other properties for this control, as one would expect... 
 Take a peek below.
 
 
 
 Property:
 
 
 Description:
 
 
 
 BOFAction 
 Determines what will happen 
 when the user moves to the beginning of the file 
 
 
 Connect 
 Determines what type of database 
 you will be using 
 
 
 DatabaseName 
 Determines the 
 databases location 
 
 
 EOFAction 
 Determines what will happen 
 when the user moves to the end of the file 
 
 
 Exclusive 
 Determines wether 
 the database being used is exclusive or not (i.e. so nobody else can use 
 it) 
 
 
 ReadOnly 
 Determines if data 
 accessed can be edited or not 
 
 
 RecordsetType 
 Determines the 
 Recordset type (each have pro/con to it, press F1) 
 
 
 RecordSource 
 Determines the recordsource 
 you want to access in the database 
 
 
 
OK, so we're going to have to switch 
 the following properties to hook the control up to a database:
 
- Connect - Select the database type you want 
 to connect to
 
- DatabaseName - Locate a database file you want 
 to access in your project
 
- RecordSource - Select a table/SQL/QueryDef
Since you've basically setup the data control, 
 your now going to bind the data control with other controls, so we can actually 
 view data from the data base, edit it, etc. We'll use the text box control for 
 this, and the properties you will have to modify are below:
 
- DataSource - Select the data controls name
 
- DataField - Select the field you would like 
 to view
Tip: 
 The more DataFields you want to view, 
 the more text boxes you should bind and use.
Now you would be 
 able to access the data base, and even edit values. You can scroll through the 
 database, move to the last record, jump back to the first record, etc. Check 
 out the Database example here (requires 'Nwind.mdb' 
 file, if you don't have it; your screwed =). Also might want to check out the 
 second example as well (requires 'Biblio.mdb' 
 file, if you don't have it; your screwed, again =). I would upload them, but 
 they're heavy weights, weighing in at 1.6 and 3.45 megs respectively, besides, 
 I think they come w/ all editions of VB.
The 
 Visual Data Manager
 So you want to make a database, but don't have 
 a database program? No problem, VB got ya covered, as you can make a database 
 with the Visual Data Manager. Of coarse, don't expect to get all the functionality 
 of database programs such as MS Access, we'll make a basic database with some 
 cool features...
Load up VB, and start 
 VDM (read: actually load VB up!) because you will find this easier as 
 the VDM may look a bit complex at first glance.
 
- Start a new database, go into 
 File > New > Text files
 
- Enter a directory name which 
 will be created in your VB dir, to store your database
 
- In the 'Database Window,' right 
 click 'Properties' and create a 'New Table'
 
- You should be in the 'Table 
 Structure' window, write 'VB' in the 'Table Name' text box
 
- Then click the 'Add Field' 
 button and in the new forms 'Name' text box write 'Version' & select 'Integer' 
 below and click OK
 
- In the same form write 'Edition' 
 in the text box and then click 'OK' and then 'Close'
 
- Hit 'Build the Table'
 
- You should see 'VB' in the 
 database window, double click it
 
- In the Version text box write 
 5, and in the Edition text box write LE and hit the Update command button
 
- Click Add, and write 6 in the 
 version textbox, and Pro in the Edition text box and hit Close
 
- In the Utility menu hit 'Data Form Designer'
 
- Write down a form name, and in the combo, select 
 'VB'
 
- Include both fields (hit '>') and build 
 the form, and close VDM
 
- Remove 'Form1' from your project
 
- Run it
SQL
 SQL, or Structured Query Language lets you 
 access certain databases... You can use it to get data, add data, delete data, 
 update data in databases. The language itself is not that hard, but I wont be 
 getting into it right now. For more info check out the MS Knowledge Base.
And that's it. You made a database that is scrollabe, 
 updateable, w/o a single damn line of code!
 
 
 
 Back 
 
