
 Introducing Microsoft .NET 
By: David S. Platt 
ISBN: 073561377X 
Publisher: Microsoft Press 
 
 
4 Reviews 
Dave Latimer Radoslav Radivojevic Ayn Shipley John Rychter 
Introducing Microsoft .NET Falls Short 
Reviewed By: Dave Latimer 
This book is a high-level, 
introductory look at the .NET Framework. By technical book standards, it’s a 
fairly light 201 pages of content. Wide margins and relatively large typeface 
(by say, Wrox standards) make it even lighter. Couple 
these facts with the fact that the book was released in April 2001 (soon after 
the release of Beta 2) and the fact that it’s covering what we all probably know 
by now is a massive framework and you begin to see a picture that is less than 
flattering.
With such short space 
available, you would hope the author gets quickly to the point. Unfortunately, 
this author doesn’t. Instead, he feels the need to rehash the golly-gosh 
features of the internet. We learn (again?) that the web started out as merely a 
means of browsing static content, but now he uses the web to watch streaming 
video sports highlights, downloading songs and set up a video camera link to his 
mother. Surely his, at least somewhat, technical audience doesn’t need this 
speech again; especially with 200 pages to cover "The 
Framework”.
I also had difficultly with 
the structure of the book. It’s framed in a problem-solution format that could 
work well. However, I found the problem was so obviously set up to be knocked 
down by the solution that the exercise became annoying. It would have been more 
straightforward (honest?) to simply state what .NET does and what problems it 
solves instead of posing it as the answer to all our prayers.
To its credit, the book is 
clearly written and a decent read. And, as the book moves on, it does reveal 
some interesting information about the .NET Framework. The review of ASP.NET, 
for example, is a decently detailed chapter of some of the changes to 
ASP. 
All in all, while this book 
may have been useful when text on the subject was scant, its usefulness has now 
passed. There are now many books that do a much better job at what this one 
attempts.
