
	VBJobs - St. Louis, MO USA
	
	
	
	
	 
	Home 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Feedback 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	VBUG Application 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Current Meeting 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Tips and Tricks 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	VBUG Online Newsgroup 
	
	
	 	
	 
 
K-Force
I have a long-term contract (6+ months w/ likely extension) for a .net developer. If you could, please spread the word and let me know if anyone might be interested. This team does solid .net development and will be great, more in-depth exposure for whoever does the job.
Eric Anderson 
KForce Professional Staffing 
Information Technology 
St. Louis, Missouri 
(314) 212-8729 
Fax: (314) 995-5311 
http://www.kforce.com
Eanderson@kforce.com
Analytix
Our client needs a person who will relocate to the Columbia, Missouri area for a full time permanent position. 
 
Here are the requirements:
 
 * Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or related field
 * Visual Basic development (at least one or two years of professional full life cycle development experience). 
 * HTML for WEB site development. 
 * Previous experience with creating, modifying and backing up databases (no Access please!)
 * Knowledge of manufacturing
 
The following are not absolute necessities, but would be nice to have...
 
 * ASP development
 * Creation/modification of modules
 * ERP/MRP implementation, support
Please have qualified candidates call the below number or they can send me a resume to my email address:
jscheffel@analytixstl.com 
 
Thank you!
 
James Scheffel
Executive Recruiter
Analytix, Inc.
(888)991-8649
Ajilon - 4 Positions
*NEW* Required General Skills
*	Good organizational skills, strong verbal and written communication
skills
*	Excellent interpersonal skills; the ability to work effectively in a
team environment
*	Excellent problem solving and troubleshooting skills
*	Analysis, design, and programming skills for N-tier applications
*	Ability to work independently or in a team environment
*	"Can-Do" attitude; results oriented
*	Desire and ability to learn
*	Ability to work in a loosely-structured team environment, taking
high-level system requirements and developing working systems
Required Technical Skills (Minimum 3 Years)
*	Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0
*	ASP (VBScript)
*	SQL Server 7.0 (or 2000)
*	TSQL and Stored Procedures
*	COM/COM+ Component Development
*	Browser Development
*	Object-oriented thinking
*	ADO
*	XML
*	Strong understanding of transactional processing systems
*	
Other Desired Skills
*	Experience building web services
*	Experience with Site Server 3.0, Commerce Edition
*	
Description of Project
Clients Information Technology develops, maintains, and integrates several
in-house and third party applications used in the day-to-day operations of
the Clients, 9 different locations
This position will work on multiple projects, extending functionality of
existing systems.
(1)Business Objects
3-5 Years
Need Your help!!!
We need a Senior Software Engineer
Position Description: Provide technical support related to the
implementation of two new Business Objects-related software packages
(Application Foundation and Set Analyzer). Develop a dashboard to be
deployed as an Extranet Application to Members.
Specific Skill/ Experience Required: Advanced Business Objects - Report &
Universe Building, Oracle Database, Advanced SQL Skills/Tuning, Application
Foundation, Set Analyzer (not required but any knowledge of this would be
helpful), Exposure to Marketing, Banking and Dashboard concepts helpful.
Project is long term.
Looking for initiative, critical thinking skills and eagerness to learn new
applications and concepts
(2)Skills Required: Test Director, WinRunner, LoadRunner, SQL (Mainframe DB2
vers 6 or 7 stored procedures, DB2 Connect
A PLUS: McCabe Testing Tool
DESCRIPTION: Working on an NT Client / Mainframe development team performing
the following:
* Create detailed test plans testing new functionality and application
performance. 
 *Perform testing and reviews that confirms adherence and conformance to
installation standards and methodologies, document and communicate results. 
* Participate in requirements review, revisions, changes, enhancements,
testing, and documentation of product enhancements. 
* Work closely with developers and 
requesters identifying data and functional requirements in the design of
system enhancements. *Ensure development objectives are accomplished.
*Consult with Business/Technical Owners on projects. 
* Develop and participate in the review of functional 
requirements and determine primary functions that the project is to provide.
* Prepare and/or present technical documentation. 
* Provide technical support for the application users to ensure adherence to
requirements. 
*Evaluate business requests to determine feasibility, work with Software
Engineers to define alternatives and recommend optimal solutions.
(3) Web Developer
MUST have 2-3 years strong HTML and ASP experience
MUST have strong Visual Basic and ASP experience
Java Script is a Plus
Will be creating a web front end including all reporting capabilities for
the Project Central which is a Microsoft Program.
Will be doing Full Life Cycle Development
(4) Senior Level Developer and Designer
XML Specialist!
For more information contact:
Elisabeth Laspe
Technical Recruiting Manager
AJILON
Suite 400
425 S. Woods Mill Road
St. Louis, MO 63017
314-434-5003 X 25
1-800-434-2342 X 25
Fax # 314-434-7441
Email: elaspe@ajilon.com
http://www.ajilon.com
 
SyllogisTeks
SyllogisTeks is a St. Louis-based IT consulting, staffing and software
development firm. Founded in 1992, our company has quickly become one of
the region's most respected technology providers. Our work has garnered
local and national recognition, winning Fast 50 Technology Awards from the
St. Louis Regional Commerce and Growth Association and placing in the top
100 of the national Deloitte & Touche Technology 500. 
 We currently have
several Visual Basic opportunities available. If you are interested in
learning more about these positions, please send your resume to
staffing@syllogisteks.com, or see our website at http://www.syllogisteks.com, or
drop it in the mail to:
 
	SyllogisTeks
	Attn:Staffing
	16401 Swingley Ridge Road
	Chesterfield, MO 63017
 
 
CTG (Computer Task Group) 
Backed by more than 30 years of experience, CTG provides IT management solutions to help Global 2000 clients focus on their core business and to use IT
as a competitive advantage to excel in their markets.
CTG has a proven track record of delivering solutions that work. With more than 4,000 IT and business consulting professionals worldwide, CTG
generated revenues of $472 million in 1999. 
For confidential consideration, or for more information on specific VB opportunities,call Jackie Crotzer at 314-469-7100 or 800-443-2844. 
Jackie Crotzer
CTG-St. Louis
jackie.crotzer@ctg.com
314-469-7100
1-800-443-2844
	Steering Committee:
	Click below to send us an email message! 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	John Pirkey
	 
	
	636-225-3262
	 
	
	webmaster@stlvbug.org
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Dave Wickersheim
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	dave@stlvbug.org
	 
	
	
Send an email to all of us here : committee@stlvbug.org
	News Editor and Web Master: John Pirkey
	
