
Visual Basic Lecture 1: The Structure of the Module
BASIC & Visual Basic
BASIC stands for Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code. It was designed in the mid 1960s to provide a simple introduction to computers. Common English words are used as commands and the language is relatively simple.
A Simple Program
' This is a Simple Hello World Program
Dim Text as String
Dim i as Integer
Text = "Hello World"
For i = 1 to 5
Print i, Text
Next i
One of the critisims of early version of BASIC was that it tended to produce unstructed code which was hard to read and debug. In the 1980's many varients of BASIC were augmented to include support for structured programming. Specifically, While and For looping and If...Then test constructs were added so that the code could be grouped into blocks.
The idea of constructing blocks of code has continued into the 1990's 
The Basics of a Programming Language
Traditional program languages are composed of commands (often called statements), operators, variables and data. Variables represent data and the statements and operators operate on the data to produce the require output.
Common Statements
Declarations
Variables and arrays need to be delcared so that when they are used the Tell the computer 
Hint: There is an option to turn declaration off, but declaring them provides a useful method of keeping track of which variables are used where. In large applications it becomes hard to 
Variables
Local Variables
Global Variables
Hint: Keep the number of global variables that an application use to a minimum. Only use a global variable where the data it represents is used throuhout the application. Otherwise the programmer should use local variables and pass them between procedures & functions. The programmer is being lazy if there are lots of globals.
Arrays
Arrays are a type of variable and can be local or global
Statements
Operators
Maths Operators
Boolean Operators
Forward: The Programming Process
Back: Philosophy of Visual Basic
This Web Page forms part of a series that describe the Custom
GIS Course at the School of Geography, Leeds University.
Author: Marcus Blake 
(marcus@geog.leeds.ac.uk)
Webmaster: Ian Turton (ian@geog.leeds.ac.uk)
Last Updated: 29 January 1996 11:01:52
