
Visual Basic Membership 
	
	
	
	 
	Home 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Feedback 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	VBUG Application 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Current Meeting 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Tips and Tricks 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	VBUG Online Newsgroup 
	
	
	 	
	 
The St. Louis Visual Basic Users Group is devoted to improving its member's skills in
Visual Basic through monthly meetings. Each meeting has two sessions. The first session consists of breaking the members up into smaller groups. Each group then discusses some code that each of them brought. The code they bring should be related to the meeting's topic (noted in the newsletter and on the website). Afterwards, each group shares the main points of their talk with the rest of the group. This is an excellent chance to get know the other members in the group. Afterall, what good is having a user group if you can't use its greatest resource, its members!
The second session is a presentation of coding techniques, add-on components, or products that relate to that month's topic. Generally, these go further in depth and discuss the tricks and tips invloved. Past presentations have covered error-handling techniques, data access methods, the help compiler, Visual Basic for Applications, SQL Server, ASP/ASP.Net, MTS/COM+, MSMQ, WinCE and VBCE, VBAssist, ToolThings, internet programming and other topics. Each meeting has a question and answer session. 
Member Notices: Monthly email on meetings
Monthly Meeting: 6:15pm - 9:15pm
 3rd Wednesday of the month
 One City Place Drive. Lower Lobby Theatre
 Creve Coeur, Missouri, USA
Membership Fee: None (is this the best deal in town?)
Membership Form
 
 Name 
 
 
 
 
 E-mail 
 
 
 
 Business/Position 
 
 
 
 Phone numbers:
 Voice Day 
 
 
Rank your level of VB experience: 
 
 	Beginner
 Intermediate
 Experienced
 Tired
 
 Hobbyiest 
 Developer
 
 
List Other Languages of understanding:
 
 
 
 
 
	Steering Committee:
	Click below to send us an email message! 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	John Pirkey
	 
	
	636-225-3262
	 
	
	webmaster@stlvbug.org
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Dave Wickersheim
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	dave@stlvbug.org
	 
	
	
Send an email to all of us here : committee@stlvbug.org
	News Editor and Web Master: John Pirkey
	
Copyright © 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 St.Louis Visual Basic Users Group. All rights reserved.
