
 A Programmer's Introduction to C# 
By: Eric Gunnerson 
ISBN: 1-893115-86-0 
Publisher: Apress 
 
 
2 Reviews 
Julie Woo Moklesur Rahman 
First Impressions 
Reviewed By: Julie Woo 
My impression after reading Eric Gunnerson's 'A 
Programmer's Introduction to C#' is that its easy to follow and it gives the 
reader a nice overview of the language and the .Net Framework. Best of all he 
has something to offer for programmers at all levels. For novice OO programmers, 
Gunnerson provides a concise overview of Object Oriented Programming techniques 
in the first six or seven chapters. Some of the topics he touches on in these 
chapters include the P.I.E principle (Polymorphism, Inheritance and 
Encapsulation), classes, member functions, exception handling, and overloading.
For novice programmers - actually for all programmers but perhaps especially 
for the novice, the best thing about a book on programming is the code samples. 
Gunnerson does a great job not only by providing many samples, (I think it'd be 
safe to say that for every one page of text, he includes two pages of code) but 
they're very clear and easy to follow. One other feature that is particularly 
helpful for novice programmers is that in many chapters, after discussing a 
particular topic, he'll provide some general design guidelines you can follow to 
improve your code. 
For the more seasoned OO programmer, this book provides a good overview of 
the language and some details about the .NET Framework. It's certainly not 
detailed enough to be used as a programming reference but it does give you a 
feel for what you're getting in to. The book includes some neat little code 
snippets in Chapter 30 to traverse directory structures, read web pages etc. He 
also dedicates a chapter to discuss the differences between C# and other 
languages such as VB, JAVA and C++. Some differences he lists between C# and VB 
include: 
 
- no Dim statement
 
- no Variant data type
 
- a VB int is a C# short, VB long is int
 
- no With, Choose or Switch statements
 
- no CallByName 
Overall, I think the book does what the title implies... it gives the reader 
an introduction to the language. While I can't see myself referring to it too 
often, I think it is a worthwhile read.
 Julie Woo 
Making the Transistion 
Reviewed By: Moklesur Rahman 
This book is for C++ or Java programmers who want to 
make a transition to C#. It is kind of reference book that explains aspects of 
OO concept and C# language itself.
The author Eric Gunnerson was a member of the Microsoft #C design team, so 
naturally the book is about what C# is, its features and relationship to 
other.Net framework.
It starts with Object Oriented concepts, then goes through basic features of 
C# language before entering deeper into C# features. At the end it discusses 
some relevant concepts like .Net Framework, Comparison to other languages like 
C++ and Java.
One striking thing about this book is the amount of examples. Every concept 
is accompanied by one or more examples. About half of the space of the book is 
filled with examples.
The book is clear, concise and easy to understand, but previous knowledge of 
OO and relevant technology is expected. 
The flow of the topics is good. It goes through different concepts and 
features of C# with simple examples. 
It is not a walk through or ‘how to’ book, rather an introduction to C# 
language with relevant examples. 
Although the book does not come with any CD ROM, all the source codes of the 
book can be downloaded from a web site. Understandably as .Net is still in Beta 
and not much relevant information can be found on Internet, this book do not 
have any reference to any web site for further information.
There is no discussion of IDE of .Net framework. The layout of the book is 
very plain. It does not have 'Tips", "Caution" or similar subsections that has 
become common on many IT books. 
	
