VB.NET Web Services for the Enterprise
	
	
	
 
 
 
	
	
	Add 1288 developers to your team
	
 
	
	
	
 
	Events
	
	
	.NET Zone
	 
	
	Recruitment
	 
	
	Developer Resources
	 
	
	Events
	 
	
	Training
	 
	
	Technical Forum
	 
	
	VBUG Team
	 
	
	Feedback
	 
	
	Contact us
	 
	
	Free Web Magazine
	
	
	
	 
	
	E-news 
	developer events
	
	
	
	
	Privacy Pledge
	
Speaker Profiles - VBUG Winter 2001
Register online now or phone 01753 648555
	
	
	
	
	
Dan Appleman
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Daniel Appleman is the president of Desaware Inc., a developer of add-on
	products and components for Microsoft Visual Development Tools including Visual
	Basic. He is a cofounder of APress, a new publishing company specializing in
	high quality professional level books for computer programmers and Information
	Technology professionals. APress is the publisher of his newest book "Moving to
	VB.NET: Strategies, Concepts and Code" and his books "Dan Appleman's Win32 API
	Puzzle Book and Tutorial for Visual Basic Programmers", "How Computer
	Programming Works". Dan is also the author of "Dan Appleman's Visual Basic
	Programmer's Guide to the Win32 API" and "Developing COM/ActiveX Components with
	Visual Basic 6.0: A Guide to the Perplexed"
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Rob Macdonald
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Rob is an experienced consultant, trainer and author.
	
	He has spent nine years as director of a successful UK software house, and is now an
	independent specialist (Salterton Hill)
	He is a frequent contributor to Visual Basic Developer Magazine, and his latest book, 'Serious ADO' is the most
	comprehensive treatment of ADO available.
	Rob runs 'serious' training
	courses on a range of VB related issues and is currently busy preparing Microsoft engineers for the release of VS .NET.
	His consulting experience includes providing design, mentoring and project management to clients including 
	Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the United Nations and Sainsbury's.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Graham Parker - VBUG
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Graham has over 10 years experience in the IT industry working for such companies as Ovum, ICL, Tesco, Rank Xerox and Centrica. He has spent the last 6 years working exclusively with Microsoft technology. As Chairman of VBUG, he has recently taken on the role of manning the VBUG technical support hotline. He also speaks at local support groups and contributes to the VBUG web site.	
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Russell Lewis
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Russell works for Storm Software.NET a Microsoft Certified Partner
	based in London, England.
	
	
	He is a Microsoft Certified Solution Developer with lots of real-world
	experience in Business Process Re-engineering, e-Commerce, Internet and
	intranet and building database applications.
	
	
	Currently he is working with Cisco, Nortel Networks and BT building a
	3-tiered ordering portal.
	
	
	Author of Learning Tree International's "Building Scalable Applications with
	COM+" course, and member of their 'Industry Expert Panel', he is a technical
	editor, trainer and conference speaker.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Steve Harris 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Steve Harris has worked as an independent software developer, consultant and trainer for over 16 years, providing solutions and advice to a wide variety of organisations and industries. He has authored and co-authored more than a dozen textbooks on IT-related topics, but now concentrates his efforts on the real-world application of Visual Basic, ASP and their associated technologies. Steve regularly speaks at major IT conferences and seminars in the UK and overseas, and is an accredited MCT and MCSD.
	
	
	In recent years Steve has delivered enterprise solutions to a diverse range of customers, from police forces to Formula 1 race teams and constructors. His development projects have involved telephony, hardware control and monitoring, image capture and recognition, plus a variety of Windows-based and web-based applications.
	
	
	Steve produced and presents VBUG&#146;s &#147;Building Web Applications with VB.NET&#148; hands-on training course.	
	
	
	Steve can be contacted at steveh@hcs-solutions.co.uk and his website can be found at www.hcs-solutions.co.uk. 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Peter Vogel 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Peter Vogel (MBA, MCSD) is a principal in PH&V Information Services. PH&V
	specializes in system design and development for COM/COM+ based systems.
	Peter has designed, built, and installed intranet and component based
	systems for Bayer AG, Exxon, Christie Digital, and the Canadian Imperial
	Bank of Commerce. He is also the editor of the Smart Access and XML
	Developer newsletters, and wrote the best-selling Visual Basic Object and
	Component Handbook (Prentice Hall), just revised for VB.NET. Peter teaches
	for Learning Tree International, wrote their Web application development and
	Technical Writing courses, and is technical editor on their COM+ course. His
	articles have appeared in every major magazine devoted to VB based
	development and in the Microsoft Developer Network libraries. Peter also
	presents at conferences in North America and Europe. peter.vogel@phvis.com.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Karl Moore 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Karl Moore is a technology author living in Warwickshire. He runs his own computer consultancy and is Senior Editor of popular development site, VB-World. In his spare time, Karl writes for computing magazine Micro Mart, plus regularly features on BBC Radio. Karl has no social life.You can visit his official Web site at www.karlmoore.com
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Philip Newlan - Oracle Corporation UK 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Philip Newlan has been with Oracle for over 7 years and a
	developer using Microsoft Tools for over 10 years. Throughout his time at
	Oracle he has focused mainly on integration of the Oracle product set in the
	Microsoft world - either organisations wanting to run an Oracle database on
	a Microsoft OS or developers wanting to interface Microsoft tools to an
	Oracle database running on 'whatever' platform. This includes Java
	developers wanting to interface to COM / DCOM.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Annie Matthewman 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Annie Matthewman works as a Principal Consultant for The Mandelbrot Set (International) Limited, 
	specialising in Internet technologies.
	She has also worked for a number of years as a technical 
	trainer, teaching many of Microsoft's developer and systems courses.
	As a non-training course speaker, she has presented at many MSDN events, including sessions at Microsoft's DevDays and MSDN briefings, 
	and worldwide at VBITS.
	Annie has a number of Microsoft qualifications, including MCSD, MCSE and MCT. 
	She holds a Bachelors degree in Physics and a Masters in Computer Science, both from Imperial College, London.
	You can visit The Mandelbrot Set's web site at www.themandelbrotset.com.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Fernando Guerrero 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Fernando G. Guerrero (Fernando.Guerrero@QATraining.com) is a Principal Technologist, SQL Server Trainer and Consultant at QA Group. Before joining QA Group, two years ago, he spent eight years in different countries designing information systems for International engineering projects, and six years teaching in an Engineering University. He writes for SQL Server Magazine, and is currently co-authoring a book about SQL Server for QUE Publishing. He is a Civil & Hydrological Engineer, a MCDBA, MCSD, MCSE+Internet and a SQL Server MVP & MCT.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Craig Murphy - Enterprise Developer, Currie & Brown 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Back in the 1980s, Craig began programming using BASIC on a BBC Microcomputer.
	During his teenage years, he progressed to C and assembler in a RISC OS environment. Five years of academia brought fresh challenges, structured methods, COBOL, C++ - Craig holds an Honours degree in Computing. He wrote his first magazine article in 1992 - a introduction to C programming aimed
	at the education sector. After graduating in 1993, he spent 3 years developing (and supporting) multimedia CD-ROMs for the Tesco "Computers for Schools" scheme. A further 3 years were spent developing (and supporting) industrial plant software. Since 1998 he has focused on web-enabling applications using XML, XSLT, SOAP, scripting, SQL Server, Delphi, Visual Basic, C# and .net.
	
	
	Craig is a regular writer for the UK Borland User Group (UK-BUG) - he has written articles about SOAP, XML, HTML Help, and component usage. Craig has given presentations to the UK-BUG membership, topics included: MS XML, the Unified Modelling Language and the Rational Unified Process, an Introduction to XSLT and WAP-enabling applications. The Delphi Magazine regularly publish Craig's work - he has written articles about XML & XSLT, SOAP, C#/Delphi Interoperability, XML Schema, and XQuery. The Visual Basic User Group (VBUG) has played host to a number of Craig's presentations - he has spoken about SOAP, SOAP Toolkits and XML & XSLT in VB6 (and MS Access). He has written numerous articles for ASPToday each covering various aspects of SOAP. In March 2001, Craig presented two sessions XML One - both were about SOAP.
	
	
	When he's not keeping up to speed with technology, Craig can be found playing golf, enjoying a curry, catching up with "Dilbert" or hill-walking in his native Scotland.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Francesco Balena
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Francesco Balena is contributing editor and member of the technical advisory board of Visual Studio Magazine (former Visual Basic Programmer's Journal), as well as editor-in-chief of Italian Visual Basic Journal. He is the author of Programming Microsoft Visual Basic 6 and of the forthcoming Programming Microsoft Visual Basic.NET (both from Microsoft Press). Francesco works as a trainer and consultant for Wintellect (www.wintellect.com) and as a regular speaker at conferences such as VBITS, VSLive, SQL2TheMax, WinDev, and WinSummit. He is the founder and chief editor of www.vb2themax.com, where you can find tons of tips, ready-to-use routines, and articles about VB and VB.NET.	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Steve Scott
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Steve Scott runs StreamByte Limited, based in Gloucestershire. Since joining
	the software industry in 1987, he has worked in many industry sectors, using
	a multitude of programming languages and databases on more platforms than he
	cares to remember. In recent years, he has specialised in web development as
	a developer, trainer and consultant, both in the British Isles, Europe and
	the USA. Steve is the father of lots of small children with whom he spends
	what little spare time he has.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Paul Kirby
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	Paul is a consultant and director of a company specialising in back-end business solutions and distributed systems mainly for the finance industry. 
	He has chosen to specialise in the Microsoft technologies used deliver to client solutions. 
	
He offers his skills and many years of experience to clients as a mentor as well as in a hands-on capacity. The expertise include ADO, ASP, SQLServer, MSMQ, COM and COM+. 
	
He is an instructor at Developmentor UK Ltd where he currently teaches COM/COM+ for VB developers. He has also developed in and taught Windows API (C and C++). 	
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
 
