 A{text-decoration: none;}
 A:hover { color: blue; text-decoration: underline; }
Functions
There are many (and i really mean many) built-in functions in VB that are time savers. From functions that show you the date and time to currency. Anyway, lets get reeaadddyyy tooooo reeaaaddddd -I mean rumble!
 Tip: Functions are statements that return values, for example Tan(x) returns the tangent of angle x. Tangent is a mathematical function.
These are Numerical & String functions
Function: Meaning:
Abs() - Returns the absolute number
Atn() - Returns the arc tangent
Cos() - Returns the cosine value
Exp() - Returns the constant raised to the power
Rnd() - Returns a random number
Sqr() - Returns the square root
Str() - Converts a number to a numeric string value
Tan() - Returns the tangent of the angle
Val() - Converts a numeric string value to a number
LCase(Str) - Returns that string in all lower case letters
Len(Str) - Returns the number of characters in that string
LTrim(Str) - Returns the string w/ any leading spaces cut off
RTrim(Str) - Returns the string w/ any ending spaces cut off
Str() - Converts the numeric argument to a string w/ numeric digits in the string
UCase(Str) - Returns string in all uppercase letters
OK, so your thinking your never going to need to know all of these, trust me, there might be a few you won't ever use in your life, but your going to end up using some of these if your really serious about programming.
Here are some examples of how to use these functions:
 Private Sub Command1_Click()
 Dim Text As String
 Text = Text1.Text
 Label1.Caption = LTrim(Text)
 'Returned the string with all leading spaces trimmed off
 End Sub
 Private Sub Command1_Click()
 Dim Value
 Value = Text1.Text
 If (Len(Value) 
 '5 letters or less
 MsgBox "It's small enough!"
 Else
 '6 letters or more
 MsgBox "It's too big!"
 End If
 End Sub
More functions below on Date & Time:
Date - Returns the date
Now - Returns the current date & time
Time - Returns the current time
Timer - Returns the number of seconds its been after midnight
If you were using a function from above your code could look something like this:
 Private Sub Command1_Click()
 Label1.Caption = Now
 'labels caption shows what time it is now
 End Sub
 Tip: This section doesn't cover all the time saving functions in VB but mostly the majority, the truth is there's just too many
More time saving functions...
IsNull() - It's true if it's null (meaning blank)
IsNumeric() - It's true if it can be converted to a Numeric data
Heres an example of how you would use them;
 If IsNumeric(txtCost.Text) = True Then 'Checking to see if its a #
(This would be good for use w/ a calculator application b/c you would get an error if the user has entered a string so therefore it should only except integers)
Yet again More functions:
CCur() - Converts whatever's in the () to the equivalent amount of currency
Int() - Rounds the number to less then or equal to the ()
And that's that... Next, Modular Programming.
Back
Next
