
Training
 
Books
Starting with a good beginner's book is one of the 
most affordable ways to start learning Visual Basic. There are many books that 
are reasonably good, but don't expect to master VB in 24 hours or even 21 days, 
as some of them promise. Try one of the following titles:
Murach's Visual Basic 6 by Koop, Prince and Murach
Beginning Visual Basic 6 by Peter Right
Visual Basic 6 from the Ground Up by Gary Cornell
For the latest on .NET books, check our
.NET book review page.
Microsoft Training
If you are intersted in following the Microsoft Official
Curriculum at your own speed, you can get Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0
Programming/Mastering Solution Set from Microsoft Press. 
This set combines two learning resources that work together to teach you how to use
Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0 to build desktop solutions: Mastering Microsoft Visual Basic
6.0 Fundamentals teaches you the basic skills you need to build desktop applications using
interactive instruction on a CD, and Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0 Programmer's Guide
created by the Microsoft VB development team for beginning to intermediate VB users.
If you prefer instructor-led training, you can also get Microsoft training by attending
classes in any of the authorized Microsoft training centers listed in the next section.
Classroom Training
There are several Microsoft Authorized Technical Education
Centers in Toronto where you can take a number of different 5-day Visual Basic
courses based on the Microsoft official curriculum (this means that Microsoft provides all
training materials). Most people with some VB experience find these courses too
basic, but they are fine if you are brand new to VB programming. The courses are
fairly expensive - expect to spend around $2000.00 per one week course - and it is always
nice if you can find somebody else (like your employer) to cover the cost. The two
most well-known training companies in Toronto are CDI Corporate Education Services and 
ThinkPath 
(formerly ObjectArts). 
You can check their web sites for the latest course schedule.
If you truly want to best and money is no object, you should
take a look at some of the great courses offered by Developmentor. Their trainers are
top-notch and they provide excellent training courses. As they are located in US,
attending them will also involve some travel. However, they are definitely worth the
money.
Magazines
Visual 
Studio Magazine is "the" magazine you should subscribe to. Even though they
focus mostly on experienced programmers, there are also several beginner sections and lots
of useful information that will come in handy as you improve your skills.
Other Web Sites of Interest
Visual Basic
Training is a Microsoft guide to instructor-led training, on-line
training, self-paced training and MCP certification.
