
	
What our members say
	
	
 
 
 
	
	
	Add 1288 developers to your team
	
 
	
	
	
 
	What our members say
	
	
	
	.NET Zone
	 
	
	Recruitment
	 
	
	Developer Resources
	 
	
	Events
	 
	
	Training
	 
	
	Technical Forum
	 
	
	VBUG Team
	 
	
	Feedback
	 
	
	Contact us
	 
	
	Free Web Magazine
	
	
	
	 
	
	E-news 
	developer events
	
	
	
	
	Privacy Pledge
	
	We believe that VBUG membership is the most efficient and cost-effective way to keep on top of the mountain of information developers need on such technologies as; .NET, C#, ADO, VB, XML, ASP, COM, SQL.
	
	
	But don't take our word for it - check out what some of our members say:
	
	
	What our Corporate Members say...
	
	
	
	
	
	VBUG for events...
	 
	
	Paul Mercer 
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG for all round service...
	 
	
	Sabah Allwan, 
	Bill Crawley, 
	Dave Hanlon
	Mark Taylor
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG for networking with other developers...
	 
	
	Steve Hallam 
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG for keeping your skills up to date...
	 
	
	John Cass, 
	Christina Spencer, 
	Laurence Elliott, 
	George Hext
	Martin Tallett
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG for technical support...
	 
	
	Jeremy Ayers-Hunt 
	Neil Russell
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG for jobs...
	 
	
	Geoff Hirst 
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG is cool...
	 
	
	Martin Andrew 
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG for the personal touch...
	 
	
	Darren Baldwin 
	 
	
	
	
	What our Corporate Members say...
	 
	
	Jenny Church - The Sollis Partnership,
	Alan Walker - WPC Software,
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Mail us with your feedback. As long as it is constructive we'll publish what you say, positive or negative!
	
	
	Order your membership information pack + FREE magazine
	
	
	
	
	
	Paul Mercer (Developer - Shift-F7) - VBUG Member since Nov 1994
	 
	
	
	
	I joined vbug in November 1994, the month I started using VB3.
	
	
	I attend where possible the annual conferences and regional meetings. These events are, for me, the biggest reason for my membership. 
	
	
	Initially I learnt not only how to use the Visual Basic environment beyond the help file and "Teach Yourself..." level, but also the where experienced programmers were having problems and how they were overcome. 
	
	
	I am now very literate on VB5, VBA, API etc, and find I use the events increasingly as an introduction to new technologies as well as a general hints and tips forum. 
	
	
	If all your hints and tips come from http://msdn.microsoft.com then you should come and see the difference in being able to ask a real person a real question and get a discussion. 
	
	
	Other features are The freebie evaluation material occasionally distributed at events has been very helpful. The Monthly Visual Basic Developer magazine is a good, sometimes great, source of info. The evolving web site is proving increasingly interesting 
	
	
	No complaints here!
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Sabah Alwah (Systems Support Controller, Gallaher Ltd.) - VBUG Member since Sep 1996
	 
	
	
	
	The reasons I belong to VBUG can be summed up as follows: 
	
	
	* The feel-good factor of belonging to a bunch of like-minded professionals, thus providing a collective voice in the VB software world. 
	
	
	* The ability to get expert help and advice as and when queries or problems arise. 
	
	
	* Attending Local Support Group meetings where discussions, advice and expert presentations are provided. 
	
	
	* A choice of good quality technical magazine. 
	
	
	* Book and magazine discounts. 
	
	
	* Access to a web site where there is a whole host of useful information about new products and events. 
	
	
	The things I get out of it, and why I think it would be useful to others, are: 
	
	
	* Sharing of information, problems, solutions; thus avoiding any mistakes others have made. 
	
	
	* Keeping pace with a fast developing technology. 
	
	
	* The bottom line is that membership of VBUG can save me time and money (and a lot of headaches !). 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Steve Hallam (Developer, Deuce Associates) - VBUG Member since Sep 1996
	 
	
	
	
	I've been a member of various user groups for as long as I've been seriously into computing, and they have been directly or indirectly responsible for many of my "lucky" breaks. 
	
	
	I've got a host of useful contacts, attended a lot of meetings where I've heard excellent speakers at low or zero cost, and have always felt that I'm not alone and have someone to turn to when I get really stuck - always a problem when you work on your own in a very small group of programmers ... and I've made friends with a lot of really nice people! 
	
	
	Seriously, any self-employed VB programmer, consultant or trainer would be crazy NOT to join VBUG (and don't forget it's tax-deductible...) 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	John Cass (Technical Director, Laserform International) - VBUG Member since Sep 1996
	 
	
	
	
	VBUG helps you to keep up - Microsoft develops VB at such a rate you hardly have time to get up to speed before the next release appears. VBUG Reminds you that you are not alone. Others are experiencing the same problems - not only comforting, but better chance of obtaining and sharing solutions. 
	
	
	The VB Developer magazine is excellent. Widens horizons (and encourages me to earmark some of my own ideas to write up when time permits). VBUG Helps to avoid getting 'stuck in the mud'. 
	
	
	New ideas in programming techniques are always interesting, often beneficial. VBUG is an excellent source of technical and training information. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Christina Spencer (Developer, Global Strategy Dynamics Limited) - VBUG Member since Apr 1998
	 
	
	
	
	I joined VBUG to assist knowledge development and networking regarding VB. I am almost completely self taught and wanted to be able to network with some people who know what they are talking about and, in turn, offer support to those coming after. 
	
	
	So far I have put one query out to the discussion group and received 3 replies - all helpful and useful. The area meetings are also a very useful forum for networking as well as finding out more about the topics presented. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Laurence Elliott (Developer) - VBUG Member since Mar 1998
	 
	
	
	
	As an amateur programmer I am always conscious of the fact that what I want from a user group, magazine or book, etc. can be quite different to what the professional programmer needs. As VBUG is primarily aimed at professional programmers, my views may not be representative of the majority of members. 
	
	
	I belong to VBUG so that I can keep up to date with developments in the world of Visual Basic. The VBUG web site provides much of this information. I enjoy reading the excellent On Line Magazine and I think the Tip/Trick section is useful. I look forward, in particular, to the introduction of the Examples of Code section. 
	
	
	The wide choice of monthly magazines will satisfy most members and the Computer Book discount is an excellent addition to the service. I can thoroughly recommend VBUG to any Visual Basic programmer. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Bill Crawley (Developer, Visual Programmers Ltd) - VBUG Member since Oct 1997
	 
	
	
	
	The price of membership is good value even if you only take a copy of Pinnacle and nothing else its a pretty good deal when you think that any decent book will cost you at least £50. On top of that you get the opportunity to go to free seminars on the latest developments. 
	
	
	Need a hand... have a real sticky problem? mail the user group. It's often comforting to know that there are other VB'ers in the same situation as yourself (everybody has problems), but someone can usually help. 
	
	
	Vbug is making a reputation for itself, some interviews I've been to,do ask if I'm a member of the user group or if I've heard of them, so the commercial sector are starting to take Vbug and its members seriously. 
	
	
	When somebody mails a question and you can answer it, It does make you feel good knowing that you have been able to help someone. 
	
	
	There is also 15% book discount, The VB magazine, only available through Vbug, that for a serious VB'er I'd say above all else would be the magazine to buy. 
	
	
	Looking for a job post your details on the Vbug Web site. The annual conference, ok we have to pay for that but it was worth it, a chance to meet and speak to some of the 'big boys' in the playground TMS - the mandlebrot set for a start. (Hope to be at this years one too). 
	
	
	How much longer can I go On?
	
	
	GO ON JOIN NOW 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Geoff Hirst (Senior Development Consultant) - VBUG Member since Mar 1998
	 
	
	
	
	My reason for being part of the group is that I am a sole developer. The group provides information and that is what makes belonging to the group worth it. Everything else is a bonus. 
	
	
	The fact someone somewhere has already done what you are trying to do, or something close to it, is really nice to know. 
	
	
	When it comes to developing the best thing available is to be able to communicate with someone with experience of the problem. This is what VBUG provides. 
	
	
	Many thanks for your assistance with the agencies. I have had about 8 different agencies call me since I put my CV on the VBUG site. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Martin Andrew (Contract Developer) - VBUG Member since Nov 1996
	 
	
	
	
	In these days of impersonal emails, electronic telephony, and the money making attitude of business in general it is good to have an informal, well advised group of like-minded people to search for those truly difficult to uncover problems in the VB myriad.
	
	
	I feel that VBUG provides an avenue for discovery, an advisory service of what's hot and what's not in the VB world. 
	
	
	As you will know, I do not attend many of the VBUG meetings, but those that I do attend unerringly provide the answers to the questions that matter. 
	
	
	But by far the biggest benefit of membership is the fact that I am kept in touch with the latest developments in the VB arena, and this allows me to keep on top of this ever changing world that is my workplace. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Darren Baldwin (Application Developer, City IT Solutions) - VBUG Member since Jun 1998
	 
	
	
	
	We are a small team of Developers 4 in all and have a vast amount of projects in the pipeline as well as the ones we are now working on. The tools we use are mainly VB and Access. The one thing we do not have is time. 
	
	
	VBUG is like having another, all knowing, team member as we have mailed a couple of our problems to them and the responses we have received have been both rapid and very informative. 
	
	
	One example has salvaged our reputation as a development team as the problem turned out to revolve around the network protocols that were being used and I cannot begin to imagine how much time could have been wasted scouring around for the solution. 
	
	
	The free magazines are also a goldmine of tips and useful information. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Dave Hanlon (Developer, IDBS) - VBUG Member since Sep 1999
	 
	
	
	
	As a newcomer to VB, I wanted to join a group of programmers/analysts who
	were dealing with real issues and who would share their solutions / views
	for this language and its application. Also, to be able to share my own
	views and ideas. Being part of a recognised body also gives us a voice at
	Microsoft.
	
	
	VBUG offered regular meetings, conferences, training and up to date
	information and I have found this to be invaluable during the past year and
	a half. I believe it is vital to keep up to date with what is happening in
	our business, particularly now with DotNet and believe that my membership
	has helped me to become a more professional VB programmer - though there is
	still so much to learn!
	
	
	I have found the staff at VBUG very friendly and helpful, especially when I
	needed reference books at short notice.
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Dr George Hext (Consultant, The Hext Consultancy) - VBUG Member since Sep 2000
	 
	
	
	
	Why am I a member of VBUG? As a solo "developer", and a nearly-retired 
	"consultant", VBUG (along with the Access User Group) gives me an invaluable 
	way of keeping in touch with all that is going on in VB and related areas. 
	Current developments are rather awe-inspiring, for somebody whose VB 
	ability/skills I would describe as only Beginner/intermediate! Indeed 
	they look more like "beginner" with every new development that you bring to 
	my notice!
	
	
	Even so, very many thanks!! George Hext.
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Jeremy Ayers-Hunt (Software Developer, NFU Mutual) - VBUG Member since Mar 2000
	 
	
	
	
	Having membership of VBUG is of great value, mainly because of the
	relatively inexpensive and effective technical help that is offered within
	the membership fee. The problem that I had centred around a three tier
	system which I was developing using Visual Basic 6, Transaction Server
	(M.T.S.) and SQLServer 7. As you (Graham Parker) had the experience with MTS it meant that
	the problem was solved relatively quickly.
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Martin Tallett (Contract Developer) VBUG member since January 2000
	 
	
	
	
	I have been looking for a way of getting a handle on Microsoft technologies 
	as the Microsoft documentation is almost impossible to find your way through 
	quickly. I am looking forward to learning about .NET and C# with a group of 
	programmers in a similar position to me.
	
	
	The email address is worth the money on its own!
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Mark Taylor (Developer) VBUG member since October 2000
	 
	
	
	
	I am a member of VBUG, having joined late last year. In a few short
	months, the membership fee has more than paid for itself... Not only do I
	receive a periodical, but the technical support, which is free(!), has
	helped me out greatly when I have found myself staring at the monitor
	usually with a look of disgust on my face. The forum hosted on the web page
	is also an excellent resource, and a way of glimpsing how others combat
	similar problems.
	
	
	I would highly recommend becoming a member of VBUG to anyone working with a
	VB environment. I have not yet attended any VBUG events and obviously when I
	do so, the value of being a member is yet greater.
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Neil Russell (Developer) VBUG member since January 2001
	 
	
	
	
	As a first year member of VBUG, but long time VB developer, I had occasion recently to seek technical help with an issue of using a large Informix database with ADO and oledb. After exhausting almost every other avenue I could think of, Microsoft, Informix and the newsgroups, I remembered the VBUG Technical support phone line and got hold of Graham Parker. Boy do I wish I had done it earlier! within a matter of a few hours graham had located another member, in Scotland, who had worked on similar projects with Informix and put us in touch with each other, 24 hours later problem solved.
	
	
	To have access(!) to a resource like this is invaluable and I would highly recommend anyone who takes VB development seriously to part with the small change needed and get a VBUG membership. My cheque is already made out for next years membership!	
	 
	
	
 
