 
 
 
 
	
	
Best VB Web Links - searchVB.com: The VB Specific Search Engine
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
 Best Web Links.NET & InternetWeb services 
 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 WEB SERVICES: 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 17 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	Microsoft: Covering their bets with .NET
	 Nothing polarizes an Internet technology discussion than the mention of Microsoft. In one corner you have Microsoft and its supporters, steadfastly sticking to the belief that Microsoft is a powerful, but fundamentally honest competitor who continually drives innovation to meet customer needs. In the other corner are the Microsoft-haters, who clamor about how Microsoft is an evil monopoly hell-bent on taking over the Internet, and eventually the world. Microsoft's development of its new .Net Web Services platform has only added fuel to the fire. Customer-focused innovation? Or arrogant, irrational hubris?
	Source: ZapThink LLC, special to SearchWebSe...
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Creating a VB.NET Web service
	 Microsoft .NET has been gaining popularity. Web services allow components to be reused across different systems. Visual Basic .NET has also become a completely Object Oriented Programming language. Upon learning Visual Basic.NET, programmers should re-evaluate their coding and design practices to take full advantage of the new features with this software. This article shows not only how to implement a Web service server and client, but some of the object oriented issues in designing a VB.NET application.
	Source: SearchVB
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Did the Shot Ring Out? Is the Revolution On?
	 The groundswell of Web Services hype should be sweeping through a network near you soon -- that is, if it hasn't already. The vendor community with its intellectual capital, R&D reservoirs, and marketing machines is aggressively rolling out the next big thing. Perhaps the greatest effort is being focused on the developer community, with a whole new generation of tools for building, connecting, and delivering Web Services applications.
	Source: Hurwitz Group
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	IBM Web Services ToolKit
	 Web Services ToolKit is a software development kit that includes a run-time environment, a demo, and examples to aid in designing and executing Web service applications that can automatically find one another and collaborate in business transactions without additional programming or human intervention. Simple examples of Web services are provided, as well as demonstrations of how some of the emerging technology standards, such as SOAP, UDDI, and WSDL, work together.
	Source: IBM alphaWorks
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	XMLEdge 2001: Kutay calls Web services holy grail of collaboration
	 Ali Kutay, the CEO of AltoWeb, discusses AltoWeb's Application Platform and Web Services with searchMiddleware Editor Brent Sheets.
	Source: searchMiddleware
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Product Brief: SilverStream's eXtend Suite
	 The SilverStream eXtend product suite is an integrated environment for the development and deployment of Web services applications using J2EE and XML. It offers a comprehensive set of tools and technologies allowing business managers and developers to prototype and manage an eBusiness from within a single environment.
	Source: searchMiddleware
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Keynote Q&A: Dave Chappell, CTO Sonic Software
	 Assistant Editor Catherine Ketcher interviews Dave Chappell, vice president and chief technology evangelist for Sonic Software, to discuss Sonic's flagship product, SonicMQ.
	Source: searchMiddleware
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Keynote Q&A: Charles Goldfarb, the Father of XML Technology
	 Editor Brent Sheets interviews Charles Goldfarb, inventor of the SGML language on which both HTML and XML are based, to discuss the history of "markup" languages, Web services and other IT topics.
	Source: searchMiddleware
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	The Roots of SGML -- A Personal Recollection (Part 1)
	 The wonderful SGML '96 conference and its theme have awakened all
sorts of interesting memories and ideas, going back over the nearly
thirty years that I've been involved with generalized markup. I'd like
to share some of them with you. But as this memoir will be short,
idiosyncratic, focused on events in which most important figures in
the SGML community did not participate, and taken from memory rather
than research.
	Source: Dr. Charles F. Goldfarb
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Article, Part II: It's a Web Services World
	 What excites many people about Web Services is their usage on the Internet. Already there are sets of functioning Web Services available for use on http://www.xmethods.com/. Typically these expose very simple interfaces, because only very simple kinds of Web Services will scale for usage on the Internet. These Web Services expose large internal chunks of functionality. Annrai O'Toole continues in Part II.
	Source: Cape Clear
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 17 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
 
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Hot Off The Press: 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Introduction Part I 
	Price: $ 60.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Using ASP Components 
	Price: $ 149.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Database Access Part I 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Advanced 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 RELATED INFORMATION: 
	>> MORE 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Search for: 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	About search
	 
	| Advanced search
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Featured Topic: 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 Learn about Web services...
	Curious about Web services? What are they? What do they do? Pros and cons? What Web services products are out there? This week's Featured Topic brings you exclusive interviews, product briefs and Web services news and articles. 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	News: 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	>> 
	
	Allchin contrasts .NET with Java (CRN)
	 
	
	
	 
	>> 
	
	Hacker finds fault in .NET security (CNET)
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
 
 
	
	
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
