
Abstractvb.com - Free ActiveX / COM controls / .NET Framework Components / Programs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 Main > Download Junction
 
	
	 
Download Junction
 
	 .NET Framework Controls 
	
	
Abstract AutoCombo .NET Framework Control
A combobox that performs type-ahead processing so it can guess what you are typing and finish it for you. 
	 
	 
 
 ActiveX Controls 
	 
	
	
Abstract Image Calendar Control
This is a very light weight calendar control that allows you to add an icon to any day on the calendar, and all the colors are customizable so you can create your own look and feel for your apps! 
Abstact TimeList Control 2
Lists the times of the day and lets you mark days or individual minutes with text and icons. Works similar to the Outlook time control. 
Abstract TopicList Control
Contains a list of Topic Headings when a heading is expanded like in a Treeview control it displays a description of the topic. This control supports CheckBoxes as well as wordwrap so you can set the description to any length you want unlike a TreeView where you just get a single line of text. If you've ever wondered how to implement a control like a ListView where you have a Collection of ListItems etc.. then look no further. This COM control works just like it with a TopicItems collection! This control is so versitle we have used it as a template to create some other controls soon to be up on the site! 
Abstract Progress Control
A VB progress control that is quick, lets you change the backcolor and forecolor and displays in both virtical and horizontal modes. 
Abstract ThumbPage Control
This VB ActiveX control displays thumbnails in two seperate viewing modes. One mode shows just the thumbs and descriptions the other mode (grid mode) shows extended information about the image such as height, width and size. The PageView control gets its name because all the results are paged and view a page at a time. The control accepts a parameter that defines the number of thumbs to show per page, and when a thumb is clicked on the file name and path are returned to the calling function. 
Abstract FolderView Control
This ActiveX control acts like Windows Explorer, displaying a list of folder and drives. Can be used as a replacement for the VB DriveBox control and the FileBox control. 
Abstract Hyperlink Control
This ActiveX control acts link a HTML hyperlink, when the control is clicked the default browser is opened and set to the URL specified. The Hyperlink Control also supports OnMouseOver and OnMouseOut Events, so you can implement these in your VB Code like you do in your VBScript code! 
Abstract Data Control
This VB ActiveX control is similar to the VB ADODC in that it acts as a Data Provider for Data Consumers. It has the ability to display the current record information so you always know how many records are in the Recordset and what the current record is. 
Abstract Pane Control
This is a ActiveX control container that can be used in the place of a VB PictureBox Control. It's very light so it won't hog resources, and it has the ability to display with 5 different types of borders: Inset, Raised, Flat, Frame, None. 
	
	
	 
	 VB6 Complete Programs 
	 	 
	
	
Abstract Thumbs
A complete project that lets you view and organize your thumbnails. Full Source Code Included. 
	
	 
	 Icons 
	 
	 	 
	
	
Internet Hand Icon
This icon is the hand icon used in Internet Explorer when the mouse moves over a hyperlink. I was amazed this was not included in VB6, so I'm offering it here. 
Toolbar Icons
A collection of 16x16 toolbar icons like the ones in VB and office. 
Windows XP Icons
A collection of icons from Windows XP, including sized 16x16,24x24,32x32, and 46x46 +. With the Window XP Alpha layer. 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
Main |Code |Books |Downloads | Links |Sitemap |About |Search 
dream it, build it, live it
Copyright Vivid Technologies Inc. 2002. All Rights Reserved.
Concerned about privacy? So are we, take a look at our Privacy Policy
Please direct all programming and site maintenance questions to the webmaster: webmaster@abstractvb.com
Please forward all proposals, advertising inquiries, and partnership requests to sales@abstractvb.com 
