 
 
 
 
	
	
Best VB Web Links - searchVB.com: The VB Specific Search Engine
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
 Best Web Links.NET & InternetGeneral resources 
 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 GENERAL RESOURCES: 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 33 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	Earning Your Way on the Web
	 In Web development? Think you are earning your keep? Or are you curious about what others around you are making? Here is your web development salary barometer. DevX has spanned the U-S to ask web developers what they make. This is a four part series on your job and what you are worth. Check it out and see where you stack up.
	
	Source: DevX
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Dumping Forms into XML Files
	 This article shows a very simple technique in ASP to take any HTML form and dump the resulting data into an XML file.
	Source: MCPCentral.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Moving a Web Site Without Down Time
	 If you have to move your web site from one server to another and you can't afford to have down-time, this article is for you. Learn how MCPCentral.com moved its web site with -0- down time.
	Source: MCPCentral.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Microsoft Server Page
	 On this Microsoft Servers site, locate your guide to the full range of Microsoft server products for IT professionals, developers, and Internet professionals. Articles here relate to .NET enterprise server solutions, SQL server 2000, Exchange server 2000 and much more. 
	Source: Microsoft
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Microsoft .NET & ASP+ Developer Resources and Information
	 Learning .NET getting you down? Well, cheer up because the folks at DevX have put together a resource page for you to follow. Represented here are a battery of links to C#, ASP+, Visual Studio.NET, Visual Basic.NET, Visual C++.NET, JScript.NET, ADO+, the .NET Frameworks SDK, SOAP, Web Services resources.
	Source: DevX
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	First Impressions of C#: Java Killer or Java Wannabe?
	 Lookout Java, because Microsoft has issued the challenge with its new C# initiative. Earthweb has put together this short, but handy summary on the features of C#. This write-up answers the basic questions, what is C#, what does it look like and ways it will be used by developers. 
	Source: Earthweb
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Rapid Application Development for the Server
	 The next version of Visual Studio provides the discovery mechanism for finding all Web services, databases, message queues, event logs, performance counters, and other server resources on a corporate network. Plus it enables developers to drag these server resources directly onto a "visual class" to begin programming in a graphic way.
	Source: MSDN Online
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Visual Basic 6.0 Internet Programming
	 This is the home page for Carl Franklin's book, Visual Basic 6.0 Internet Programming. You can get the latest software updates and answers to common questions about the code and related topics.
	Source: Carl Franklin
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	URL Live!
	 This site offers URL Live!, a free HTTP server for Windows 95/98/NT. Also, find application programs and developer tools that you can pay for. They will guide you through writing and developing a number of different Web tools.
	Source: Pacific Software Publishing
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Internet Programming Tips
	 Browse this world for top tips on Internet Programming. Evaluate code and hear what other programmers have to say about the tips that are on display.
	Source: VB World 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 33 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
 
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Hot Off The Press: 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Introduction Part I 
	Price: $ 60.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Using ASP Components 
	Price: $ 149.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Database Access Part I 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Advanced 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 RELATED INFORMATION: 
	>> MORE 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Search for: 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	About search
	 
	| Advanced search
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Featured Topic: 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 Certification: Pros and Cons
	As two of the best-known and most widely-pursued IT certifications, it's important to understand the costs and benefits of MCSE and MCSA. Certification guru Ed Tittel provides insight into where certification is heading. 
	 
	More Featured Topics
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	News: 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	>> 
	
	Allchin contrasts .NET with Java (CRN)
	 
	
	
	 
	>> 
	
	Hacker finds fault in .NET security (CNET)
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
 
 
	
	
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
