
 Database Programming with Visual Basic.NET 
By: Carsten Thomsen 
ISBN: 1893115291 
Publisher: Apress 
 
 
One of the better ones 
Reviewed By: Kunjal Karamshi 
I was actually looking forward to reviewing this book 
since it has been published by Apress and also because I haven’t found any 
really good ADO.NET book yet. The book claims that it is intended to be the 
ADO.NET book that any serious VB programmer who does database programming should 
read from cover to cover. I would tend to agree with that statement mainly 
because I feel that there aren’t many good books on ADO.NET on the market today 
at least among the ones I have seen. Of the ones that I have seen, this book is 
one of the better ones.
The book is divided into 3 parts. The first part deals with an introduction 
to the different technologies in the .NET Framework and an introduction to the 
Visual Studio.NET IDE. I skipped this part because it is of little use to 
someone who already knows their way around the IDE. 
The second part of the book is the main part. It begins with a short 
introduction to database concepts before moving on to the two different layers 
of ADO.NET - the connected layer and the disconnected layer. I found these two 
chapters to be the most interesting in the entire book. You could almost say 
that the book becomes a reference manual for the various data classes in 
ADO.NET. Exception handling under .NET is dealt with briefly as is the use of 
stored procedures, views and triggers in SQL Server 2000. The latter chapters of 
the second part which deal with Active Directory, Message Queues, data wrappers 
and data bound controls were also very interesting. The final part of the book 
is a sample application that demonstrates many of the classes discussed in the 
book. 
My main sticking point with the book was the fact that there were too few 
code examples given in the text. The book mentions in plenty of places that 
source code can de downloaded from the Apress site but I felt a CD-ROM 
containing code examples would have been a good idea. The coverage of the 
different ADO.NET classes is good with the exception of the XMLReader related 
classes. The fact that XML underpins most of the functionality within the .NET 
framework makes this a glaring omission on the part of the author. On the whole, 
however, I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to dig a little deeper 
into ADO.NET. I came away feeling like I needed more which is always a good 
thing from a publisher’s point of view. 
	
