
 Professional .NET Framework 
By: Jeffrey Hasan et all 
ISBN: 1861005563 
Publisher: Wrox 
 
 
The more focused the better 
Reviewed By: Dave Latimer 
Profession .NET 
Framework is a strong effort at providing a cross between a reference book and a 
best practices and samples book. It’s a hefty book that tackles an even heftier 
subject. It is meant for intermediate to advanced programmers of almost any 
high-level language. The book does well at being as language agnostic as the 
Framework itself, since samples are well-balanced between VB.NET and C#.NET 
(sorry C++ aficionados). It seems the authors are definitely coming from the 
C/C++/Java family of languages but they generally do a good job of hiding their 
bias.
While the book has 
plenty of samples, it doesn’t have a strong focus. In my reading of .NET books 
thus far, I’ve come to one conclusion: the more focused the better. This book 
did a good job covering the areas it did cover in detail (e.g., remoting, 
run-time hosts, and the inner workings of the CLR). There were some areas, 
however, that were given rather short shrift; one, surprisingly, was Web 
Services. The chapter dedicated to them was quite high level and didn’t have the 
same degree of detail as one would expect on a subject of such high profile. 
This is unfortunate given that so much type was used on areas which I wasn’t 
looking for in a book of this kind. Best practices, migration and 
object-oriented design and programming principles, for example, are definitely 
subjects worthy of print; they’re just not subjects that seemed to fit with the 
flow of the book. What this boils down to is the book covers many areas of the 
.NET Framework very well, but it leaves some gaps (which is inevitable with a 
subject of this size) and it doesn’t have a strong sense of flow. It jumps from 
the nitty grittiness of CLR runtime hosts to high-level OOP, then back to the 
underworld of Remoting channels and up to best engineering practices, with 
little apparent rhyme or reason. 
So, as a cover-to-cover 
read, it lacks a little, however, each chapter is quite a well-contained 
discussion of the topic at hand. Also, there were no apparent shortcomings due 
to the fact that it was written during beta 1 release. For these reasons it will 
serve as a good reference book in the future. 
	
