 
 
 
 
	
	
Best VB Web Links - searchVB.com: The VB Specific Search Engine
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
 Best Web LinksCareers & TrainingTraining 
 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 TRAINING: 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 26 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	Raise your Windows IQ
	 Wintellect offers a full range of .NET, CE, VB, Win32, MFC, COM, Debugging, and Web programming classes that are ready for delivery at your site. Wintellect also offers open enrollment courses at around the country, and provide expert consulting and debugging services featuring some of the biggest and most respectable names in the business.
	Source: Wintellect
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	The Microsoft Certification Site
	 Certification provides a method to prove your advanced skills and experience with Microsoft technologies. Microsoft certification helps organizations identify the best in the industry. If you're interested in pursuing your certification, this is a great place to start your research.
	Source: Microsoft
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Arun's Total MCSD Solution Page
	 This site focuses on providing help and encouraging aspiring MCSDs. Links and preperation guides abound here. Technologies include VB 5-6, SQL, MCSD and more.
	Source: RC Arun
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Extreme Logic
	 Extreme Logic is a Certified Technical Education Center for Microsoft, delivering the latest certified curriculum on the Microsoft tool-set, including Windows 2000, Exchange 2000, Visual Basic, Visual C++, Site Server and Visual InterDev.
	Source: Extreme Logic
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Train with a Master
	 Carl Franklin of Carl & Gary's Visual Basic Home Page owns and operates this company that provides software for live online training sessions. Carl teaches VB Internet Programming classes online along with other topics. 
	Source: WorldTRAIN Online Training Software
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	IT Certification Training
	 Making the learning process adaptive is key to Wave Technologies' training methodology. Through a test-teach-test model that uses multi-level assessment platforms, Wave Technologies offers individuals targeted integrated technical training programs. Courses cover LAN, WAN, telecommunications, advanced operating systems and Internet technologies.
	Source: Wave Technologies International
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Computer Training Services
	 Productivity Point International caters to those looking for technology learning solutions. This company has certified training through Microsoft, Lotus, Novell, Citrix, Sun, Allaire and more. 
	Source: Productivity Point International
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Training Programs and Resources
	 Planetlearn.com provides over 2000 interactive self-study training programs available in video, cd rom, and online. Topics range from end user applications to more advanced technical titles. Find Visual Basic training programs on Planetlearn.com. 
	Source: Planetlearn.com 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	IT Training
	 New Horizons' training integration allows businesses and individuals the flexibility to choose from a variety of training products and services that best suit their individual needs. Nearly 15-hundred courses are offered here. Focuses lean towards Microsoft, Lotus, HTML to name a few. 
	Source: New Horizons Computer Learning Center
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Hands-On IT Training
	 Learning Tree has trained more than 800,000 technical professionals around the world. Choose an international site below to explore the Learning Tree experience.
	Source: Learning Tree International
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 26 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
 
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Hot Off The Press: 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Introduction Part I 
	Price: $ 60.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Using ASP Components 
	Price: $ 149.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Database Access Part I 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Advanced 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 RELATED INFORMATION: 
	>> MORE 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Search for: 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	About search
	 
	| Advanced search
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Featured Topic: 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 Certification: Pros and Cons
	As two of the best-known and most widely-pursued IT certifications, it's important to understand the costs and benefits of MCSE and MCSA. Certification guru Ed Tittel provides insight into where certification is heading. 
	 
	More Featured Topics
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	News: 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	>> 
	
	Gimme a VB developer--stat! (InformationWeek)
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
 
 
	
	
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
