 
 
 
 
	
	
Best VB Web Links - searchVB.com: The VB Specific Search Engine
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
 Best Web Links.NET & InternetInternet Programming 
 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 INTERNET PROGRAMMING: 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 15 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	An introduction to the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP)
	 Get a simple overview of how Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) works and which systems support it. The author also discusses how SOAP is helping to fuel the rise of the Web services market. Free registration is required.
	Source: TechRepublic
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	With a little help from C#
	 Read up on exception handling. This free online chapter of Eric Gunnerson?s intro to C# will get you set for everything you need to know about C#, and exception handling within .Net. 
	Source: VB-2-The-Max
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Moving a Web Site Without Down Time
	 If you have to move your web site from one server to another and you can't afford to have down-time, this article is for you. Learn how MCPCentral.com moved its web site with -0- down time.
	Source: MCPCentral.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Using MSHTML and VB
	 Learn how to use the MSHTML Object Library with Microsoft Internet Explorer with this sampling from abstractVB.
	Source: abstractVB
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Running Internet Explorer and have the Events Return to Your Program
	 Create an instance of Internet Explorer in your code and have
the events return to your program so you can control the instance of
IE at runtime in your VB app.
	Source: abstractVB
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Getting the Last Modified Date of a Web Page
	 Use the Internet Transfer Control to obtain the Last Modified Date of a Web
Page.
	Source: abstractVB
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Creating Designable Components for Microsoft Visual Studio .NET Designers
	 This 26 page article, by Shawn Burke, outlines Microsoft's position that .NET Framework components can provide some of Visual Basic's ease-of-use, yet deliver the power of lower level programming associated with ATL or MFC.
	Source: Microsoft
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	How to check if Internet Explorer is installed
	 Kim Pedersen created this helpful tip demonstrating how to use the APIs RegOpenKeyEx, RegCloseKey and RegQueryValueEx to check if the registry values are set for IE.
	Source: vbCode Magician
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Printing a Web Page
	 By doing this you can print any web page directly from the Internet without
having it saved as an Internet Shortcut.
	Source: abstractvb.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Making a graphical FTP program
	 This snippet of code shows how to use the Internet Transfer Control to make a Graphical FTP Program.
	Source: abstractvb.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 15 Links 
	
	
	Previous Page 
	 
	 Next Page
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
 
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Hot Off The Press: 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Introduction Part I 
	Price: $ 60.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Using ASP Components 
	Price: $ 149.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Database Access Part I 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Advanced 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 RELATED INFORMATION: 
	>> MORE 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Search for: 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	About search
	 
	| Advanced search
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Featured Topic: 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 Certification: Pros and Cons
	As two of the best-known and most widely-pursued IT certifications, it's important to understand the costs and benefits of MCSE and MCSA. Certification guru Ed Tittel provides insight into where certification is heading. 
	 
	More Featured Topics
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	News: 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	>> 
	
	Allchin contrasts .NET with Java (CRN)
	 
	
	
	 
	>> 
	
	Hacker finds fault in .NET security (CNET)
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
 
 
	
	
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
