
 Step by Step XML 
By: Michael J. Young 
ISBN: 0735610207 
Publisher: Microsoft Press 
 
 
Practical Approach 
Reviewed By: Gordana Lamb 
"Step by Step XML” by Michael J. Young takes a very 
practical approach to presenting the XML fundamentals. It is designed to be a 
self-study kit that provides you with step-by-step tutorials and examples where 
each chapter builds on the previous ones. The author explains all the terms in 
very clear, concise and straight-forward manner that makes it very easy for any 
beginner to grasp all the new concepts. In addition, there is no unnecessary 
theoretical or abstract babble in this book which makes it a very easy and quick 
read.
The book contains two main sections. The first section provides a gentle 
introduction to XML, answering the basic questions of what XML is and how do we 
use it to solve real-world problems. This is followed by several chapters that 
explain the rules and techniques for creating XML documents, including topics on 
well-formed and valid documents. While the author shows you how to make your XML 
documents valid by using DTDs, there is no mention of how to use schemas. 
The second section focuses on showing you several techniques for displaying 
XML documents in Web browser. They include: 
 
- 
 attaching a style sheet to an XML document that provides the browser with 
 formatting instructions 
 
- 
 displaying XML documents by using data binding from a conventional HTML 
 page 
 
- 
 using DOM scripting to display XML documents from within an HTML page 
 
 
- 
 displaying XML documents using XSL style sheet without using an 
 intermediary HTML page 
All chapters include extensive examples that are also available on the 
companion CD which is included with the book and there is a comprehensive set of 
links to additional information on the Web which you can explore if you want to 
go beyond the basics. 
While this book is obviously targeted at complete beginners in this area, I 
found it to be a quick and easy reference on most of the basic XML topics. 
However, it does cover only the basics and gives you some simple examples to get 
you started. 
	
