
 Essential XML Quick Reference 
By: Aaron Skonnard and Martin Gudgin 
ISBN: 0201740958 
Publisher: Addison-Wesley 
 
 
Pure XML 
Reviewed By: George Klissarov 
The Essential XML Quick Reference is a really good quick reference
manual. You will not learn everything about XML by reading this book.
However, if your need is for a reference, then this is the perfect
alternative and supplement to MSDN help windows cluttering your screen.
It consists of a comprehensive but very concise summary, in reference
form, of the various W3C standards documents for XML provides a concise,
easy to search reference for the core technologies of XML: namespaces,
DTDs, XPath, DOM Level 2, SAX, SOAP, etc.. Where the book excels is that
it is pure XML. It avoids getting bogged down in parser-specific issues,
but instead addresses XML at a standards level.
Another strength of the book is in its coverage of two of the most
exciting XML concepts: Schemas and SOAP. The schema coverage is split
into two chapters. The first deals with the base schema types and how to
create simple type. The second chapter focuses on complex types and
schema extension. The SOAP chapter, like the rest of the book, stays
focused on pure XML and avoids discussion SOAP implementations from IBM,
Microsoft, etc. It provides a great reference to the building blocks of
a SOAP message. The only thing missing from this chapter is a reference
for WSDL.
The explanations are short, but they are detailed enough to be useful
and the coverage is complete. Code examples are used to illustrate most
of the commands and they are well-constructed, really to the point,
without being simple. It doesn't take long to 'get' one of these
examples and to test your understanding of the textual definition. In
the few places where language-specific sample code is provided, the
samples are available for both the Java and COM. It has been well edited
and the layout is superb: the right things stand out in the right
places. It's compact for the quantity of information contained. While
the explanations are short, they are detailed enough to be useful and
the coverage is complete.
 
 
	
