
VB Helper: Ready-to-Run Visual Basic Graphics Programming: Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 What's New
 Index
 Books
 Links
 Q & A
 Newsletter
 Banners
 
 Feedback
 Tip Jar
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Old Pages
 
 Old Index
 Site Map
 What's New
 
 Books
 How To
 Tips & Tricks
 Tutorials
 Stories
 Performance
 Essays
 Links
 Q & A
 New in VB6
 Free Stuff
 Pictures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ready-to-Run Visual Basic Graphics Programming: Table of Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Overview 
 Table of Contents 
 Updates 
 
 
 What Readers Have Done 
 What's New in Edition 2 
 Amazon.com 
 
 
 Amazon.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The links in the following text display images that demonstrate the techniques in this book. 
Some browsers make these files appear grainy. If yours does, try viewing the .GIF files stored 
in your Web cache directory.
 
 
 Part One: Working with Windows 
 
 
 
1. Visual Basics
This chapter covers Visual Basic graphics fundamentals such as
coordinate systems, handling Paint events, graphical controls,
creating scrolled windows, and basic colors.
2. Using the API
This chapter explains how to use the Windows API in 
Visual Basic programs. It also describes many API functions that are
useful in graphics programs.
3. Advanced Color
Chapter 3 describes more advanced color topics including different
color models, device-independent and device-dependent bitmaps,
and color palettes. The more bitmap-oriented parts book later
assume you are using higher color modes such as 24-bit color.
This chapter describes color palettes for completeness.
4. Advanced Text
Chapter 4 covers advanced text operations such as finding text metrics
to learn exactly how big a font is, and how to use the CreateFont API
function to build stretched, compressed, and 
rotated text.
5. Printing
This chapter explains how to use the Printer object to produce
high-resolution printouts. It explains how to print, display a print
preview, handle multi-page documents, and scale objects to fit
the printer nicely. It also includes code that lets you easily
print a form much as PrintForm does, only in high resolution.
 
 
 Part Two: Image Processing 
 
 
 
6. Point Processes
This chapter explains image processing techniques including that
manipulate an image one pixel at a time. These methods include image
averaging, 
adjusting an image's brightness, contrast, or color balance, and
compositing.
7. Area Processes
Chapter covers image processing techniques thaht manipulate areas
in an image. These methods include spatial filtering to smooth,
sharpen, or 
emboss an image.
This chapter also describe
rotation and
shape-disorting
image transformations.
 
 
 Part Three: Animation 
 
 
 
8. Bitmap Animation
Chapter 8 explains the fundamentals of bitmap animation. It shows how
to use several different methods for presenting images quickly
enough to create smooth animation.
9. Advanced Animation
Chapter 9 tackles more advanced animation topics. It describes 
different ways you can control an animation such as scripting,
simulation, and sprites. It also describes specialized animation
techniques such as tweening and
morphing.
 
 
 Part Four: Two-Dimensional Graphics 
 
 
 
10. Fractals and Tilings
As its title implies, this chapter describes fractals and tilings
including
random trees,
animated 
snowflakes,
Hilbert curves,
gaskets,
the chaos game,
the Mandelbrot set (image 1,
image 2,
image 3), and
Julia sets (image 1,
image 2,
image 3).
Using these programs you can build intricate images with remarkably little code.
11. Drawing Curves
Chapter 11 shows how you can draw several useful kinds of curves.
It explains how to draw parametric curves such as
Bowditch curves and
cycloids. It also shows
how to fit a curve to data using Hermite, least squares, and 
Bezier curves.
12. Two-Dimensional Transformations
This chapter explains a simple way to represent two-dimensional
transformations that allow you to perform important operations such
as scaling, translating, and rotating objects in a uniform way.
Chapter 12 also describes
shape-distorting transformations.
 
 
 Part Five: Three-Dimensional Graphics 
 
 
 
13. Three-Dimensional Transformations
This chapter extends the two-dimensional transformations described 
in Chapter 12 into three dimensions. It explains how to display 
simple
three-dimensional objects.
14. Surfaces
Chapter 14 explains several different ways to generate and display
surfaces including
fractal surfaces,
parametric surfaces, and
surfaces of transformation.
By adding a little color, you can make surprisingly realistic
landscapes.
15. Hidden Surface Removal
Three-dimensional images are easier to understand if hidden
surfaces are not displayed. Chapter 15 shows how to remove hidden 
surfaces from both
simple and
complex three-dimensional scenes.
16. Shading Models
Shading models add extra realism to three-dimensional images.
This chapter builds a complex shading model to produce
more realistic pictures.
It also explains the 
Gouraud and
Phong
methods for smooth shading.
17. Ray Tracing
Ray tracing allows a program to draw reflective and transparent
objects. Chapter 17 develops an advanced ray tracing system
to display fascinating images.
- Frosty (one of my favorites)
- Big blue marble
- Graphics evolution
- Two overlapping
- Four overlapping
- Big and small
- Six orbiting
- Six overlapping
This chapter covers:
- Multiple light sources.
- A new checkerboard object.
- Texture mapping.
- Environment mapping.
- Image mapping to determine transparency.
- A script-driven
object editor
that lets you preview scenes using wireframe or shading models.
 
 
 Part Six: Beyond Three Dimensions 
 
 
 
18. Higher-Dimensional Transformations
Chapter 18 extends the transformations described in Chapters 12 and 13
into higher dimensions. This allows a program to display
four-dimensional objects,
and even objects of higher dimensions. This chapter explains how to 
use animation to make higher-dimensional images understandable.
19. Mathematical Tools
This chapter describes some useful mathematical formulas that
calculate geometric values such as the distance between two points,
between a point and a line, between two lines, and between a
point and a plane. Chapter 19 reviews matrix and vector operations,
and shows how to derive the locations of the vertices in the 
Platonic solids (tetrahedron, cube, octahedron, dodecahedron,
and icosahedron).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ready-to-Run Visual Basic Graphics Programming: Table of Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Overview 
 Table of Contents 
 Updates 
 
 
 What Readers Have Done 
 What's New in Edition 2 
 Amazon.com 
 
 
 Amazon.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright © 1997-2001 Rocky Mountain Computer Consulting, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Updated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
