
 XML for ASP .NET Developers 
By: Dan Wahlin 
ISBN: 0672320398 
Publisher: Sams Publishing 
 
 
XML for the experienced 
Reviewed By: Gordana Lamb 
In his book "XML for ASP.NET Developers”, Dan Wahlin 
focuses on the different ways XML can be used by developers in ASP.NET 
applications to make them more efficient, flexible and maintainable. This book 
is targeted at the intermediate and advanced developers and, unlike the "Step by 
Step XML” by Michael Young which can be considered a light reading in 
comparison, it will require a considerable investment of your time and effort to 
get through all of the chapters. However, the information covered is pretty 
extensive. Dan provides an in-depth coverage of many XML topics and includes 
numerous code samples that help illustrate his points.
The book can be divided into four different sections. In the first section, 
he covers the XML basics including the XML document rules, elements, attributes, 
namespaces, DTDs and XML Schemas, and all of the other things that you need to 
know when you are just starting to learn XML. However, he quickly dives into 
more advanced topics such as XPath, XPointer and XLink.
The second section focuses on different programming concepts starting with a 
look at the different classes in the System.XML assembly. This is followed by 
examples on how to work with Document Object Model (DOM) and how to transform 
XML with XSLT. The next section covers concepts related to working with data 
including ADO.NET and new XML features in SQL Server 2000. The final section is 
a chapter that provides some brief information on SOAP and Web Services 
including examples on how to consume web services from an ASP.NET page.
This book provides a good reference on many XML topics, but it is important 
to know that the author expects you to be an experienced developer with some 
familiarity with .NET concepts. If you are just starting to learn about .NET and 
XML, you might want to start with something that is more targeted to beginners. 
In addition, all of the sample code is provided in C# only. 
	
