
VB Helper Tutorials
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	New Home 
	Old Home 
	What's New 
	Site Map 
	 
	Books 
	How To 
	Tips & Tricks 
	Tutorials 
	Stories 
	Performance 
	Essays 
	Links 
	Q & A 
	New in VB6 
	Free Stuff 
	Pictures 
	 
	Awards Received 
	Banners 
	 
	News Letter 
	
	Feedback
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Tutorials
The links below lead to magazine articles and chapters from books written by me (Rod Stephens). These articles are tutorial and in much greater depth than the HowTo example programs. They also include links that let you download the example source code.
If you like what you read, click on the Source links to learn more about the book or magazine where this material was first published.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	Title
	Description
	Source
	
	
	
	 Discovering Database Structure with VB .NET
	 
	
When you build a database yourself, you know what you've put in it. But what do you do if you have a legacy database thrust upon you? How do you figure out what tables are present? What fields are in the tables? How are the tables related? This article explains some useful techniques for learning about the structure of an MSDE or SQL Server database using Visual Basic .NET.
 
 See also my book Visual Basic .NET Database Programming.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Executing Ad Hoc Queries with VB .NET
	 
	
Database applications typically include an assortment of prepackaged queries and reports, but no application can anticipate every user's needs. An ad hoc query system allows an application to meet unforeseen requirements. Rod Stephens explains how to use VB .NET database objects to perform queries and manipulate the database by executing SQL scripts.
 
 See also my book Visual Basic .NET Database Programming.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Twos Complement Numbers
	 
	
	 This article explains twos complement representations for numbers. This information can help you understand which bits are set to represent integer values.
	 
	
 VB Helper
	 
	
	
	
	 Using Floating Point Numbers
	 
	
	 This article explains some obscure and puzzling bugs that can occur when you use floating point numbers.
 
 See also my book Bug Proofing Visual Basic.
	 
	
 VB Helper
	 
	
	
	
	 Introduction to DataSets with Visual Basic .NET
	 
	
	 ADO stores data in a relatively simple Recordset object. ADO.NET, on the other hand, uses a bewildering assortment of classes including DataSet, DataTable, DataColumn, and various constraint objects. Rod Stephens provides an introduction to the most basic of these classes, and shows how you can use them to manage data in a simple database application.
 
 See also my book Visual Basic .NET Database Programming.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 S. Ibaraki Interviews Rod Stephens
	 
	
	 In this interview, Stephen Ibaraki asks for tips, things I've learned in past projects, development topics to watch, and more.
	 
	
 Canadian Information Processing Society
	 
	
	
	
	 Binding Controls with VB .NET
	 
	
	 Would you believe that you can make a program that lets the user view, insert, update, and delete records in a database table with only two lines of code? You can by using bound controls. Rod Stephens explains how you can bind controls to data at design time or at runtime to provide simple but powerful database access with no muss or fuss.
 
 See also my book Visual Basic .NET Database Programming.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Getting Started with MSDE and VB .NET
	 
	
 Access databases are cheap, but they work well only for small, single-user applications. SQL Server is powerful enough to support huge databases with multiple simultaneous users, but it is very expensive. What if you're stuck somewhere in between? Rod Stephens explains how you can use MSDE to build small multiuser applications while preparing to scale up if your database needs increased performance. 
 
 See also my book Visual Basic .NET Database Programming.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Automating the build process of a Visual Basic project
	 
	
 This tutorial explains how to use Windows Scripting Host to run the scripts, and use nmake to compile the project 
	 
	
 Sridhar Natarajan
	 
	
	
	
	 Getting Started with VB 6 and XML
	 
	
 VB.NET includes a lot of built-in support for XML but there's no reason to wait for VB.NET to use XML. This article explains how you can take advantage of XML in your VB 6 applications right now!
 
 See also my book Visual Basic.NET and XML.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 VB.NET + XML = Object DB
	 
	
 When most programmers think about databases, they think of relational databases. Other kinds of databases are also sometimes very useful. This article explains how you can use XML to build your own object databases.
 
 See also my book Visual Basic.NET and XML.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 VB.NET + XML = Undo/Redo
	 
	
 Undo and redo features are de rigueur in high-quality professional applications, yet no one tells you how to build them. This article explains how to use XML to add undo and redo features to your applications with ease.
 
 See also my book Visual Basic.NET and XML.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Where Was I? Restoring Application State with VB and XML
	 
	
 In complex applications, users spend a lot of time arranging forms, opening windows, and performing other startup chores. You can make this easier by having the application store and restore its state when it stops and restarts. This article shows how to use XML to save and restore program state quickly and easily.
 
 See also my book Visual Basic.NET and XML.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Reasons to Prototype in Visual Basic
	 
	
 Aircraft and automobile manufacturers don't start a multi-million dollar project without prototyping first. Why should you? This article explains some of the reasons you might want to build a prorotype before starting a software project. Once you know what's at stake, you can learn more about prototyping in Visual Basic from my book coincidentally named Prototyping with Visual Basic.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Query By Example
	 
	
 The most useful prototypes are up and running quickly so users can provide feedback early on. This article, based on my book Prototyping with Visual Basic, explains how you can add a query by example feature to your database prototype quickly and easily.
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Making a Splash
	 
	
 First impressions can make or break a project. This article, based on my book Prototyping with Visual Basic, shows how to make eye-catching splash screens that will make your application the talk of the water cooler!
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	 Tales from the Trenches
	 
	
 Prototyping with Visual Basic uses amusing true stories to make a lot of important points. This article contains some of the more interesting stories. Have a chuckle at my expense!
	 
	
 InformIT
	 
	
	
	
	Steganography: Hidden in Plain Sight
	 
	This article explains basic steganography: the art of hiding information within other information. It shows a simple method for hiding text in an image.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	Building Property Pages
	 
	This article explains the basic steps to building property pages for a new ActiveX control.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	Screen Resolution
	 
	This article discusses several different ways to handle screens with different resolutions.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	Cryptography
	 
	A series of articles on interesting topics in cryptography.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	More on error handling
	 
	Lots of discussion of error handling by Per Sjoborg, based in part on my book Bug Proofing Visual Basic.
	 
	PUCC Multimedia
	 
	
	
	
	Using Direct3D with VB
	 
	An introduction to using Direct3D for higher performance three-dimensional graphics.
	 
	VB Explorer
	 
	
	
	
	International Character Sets
	 
	Describes character sets and shows how to select them for different languages.
	 
	Chris Wagg
	 
	
	
	
	Background Color
	 
	Notes on background colors and a routine that sets background color for the TreeView control.
	 
	Mike Klein
	 
	
	
	
	Direct3D
	 
	I'm writing this ongoing series of articles on Direct3D. The final goal is to build a 3-D maze war game.
	 
	VB Explorer
	 
	
	
	
	Internationalization
	 
	Tips and tricks for building international applications.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	Sorting Viewer 
	This program on Rick Meyer's Web site demonstates several different sorting algorithms. 
	Makai's VISUAL BASIC & HTML Programming 
	
	
	
	Does P = NP?
	 
	This article describes the sets P and NP, asks the question "does P = NP?" and explains why that question is of profound philosophical and practical importance.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	ADO Tools
	 
	This is a talk I gave to the Denver Area Visual Basic User's Group metting on 1/24/00.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	Constructors in VB
	 
	This article on the PUCC Multimedia Web site explains how to use constructors to initialize objects in VB.
	 
	PUCC Multimedia
	 
	
	
	
	Introduction to ADO
	 
	This is a PowerPoint presentation I gave to the Denver Area Visual Basic User's Group lab metting on 9/20/99.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	Working With Remote Database Times
	 
	This article on SmithVoice.com explains how to use GMT times to coordinate data access from different locations around the world.
	 
	Robert Smith
	 
	
	
	
	Drawing Platonic Solids
	 
	This article explains how to calculate the
	coordinates of the corners of the Platonic solids:
	tetrahedron, cube (hexahedron), octahedron,
	dodecahedron, and icosahedron.
	 
	For more information on three-dimensional graphics, see
	Visual Basic Graphics Programming
	 
	
	
	
	
	An Introduction to Visual Basic
	
(Leads to a different Web site)
	 
	Provides an introduction to Visual Basic, explaining fundamentals such as loops, subroutines, etc. Compares VB to Delphi. 
	
	Peter McMahon, CEO, !Run Software 
	
	
	
	Error Handling Fundamentals
	 
	Explains the basics of using error handlers to protect a
	program from unexpected errors. 
	Bug Proofing Visual Basic book 
	
	
	
	Object Serialization
	 
	Make complex objects save and restore themselves
	quickly and easily. 
	Microsoft Office & Visual Basic for Applications Developer (MOD) magazine 
	
	
	Beyond Flatland 
	3-D graphics and 3-D surface drawing in Visual Basic. 
	Visual Basic
	Developer magazine 
	
	
	FlappingFlag Control 
	An ActiveX control demonstrating image processing and animation in VB5/6 
	Custom Controls Library book 
	
	
	Slightly Irregular 
	Irregular and sparse arrays, and other memory-saving data structures 
	Microsoft Office & Visual Basic for Applications Developer (MOD) magazine 
	
	
	Sorting It Out 
	Sorting algorithms 
	Visual Basic
	Developer magazine 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
 Subscribe to the VB Helper newsletter 
	
	
	
	Copyright © 1997-2001 Rocky Mountain Computer Consulting, Inc.
	 All rights reserved.
	 
	www.vb-helper.com/tutorial.htm 
	Updated 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
 
