
Visual Basic Books- Learn Microsoft Visual Basic 6 Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visual Basic Books
Home
Beginner Visual Basic Books
Database Visual Basic Books
ActiveX Visual Basic Books
Advanced Visual Basic Books
VB Internet Programming Books
Resources
Visual Basic Links
Add a Link
Subscribe to Mailing List
 
 
 
 
Learn Microsoft Visual Basic 6 Now
 
Author: Michael Halvorson
Publisher: Microsoft Press 
 
 
Review
 Learn Microsoft Visual Basic 6 Now is another excellent true beginner Visual Basic 6 book. The book assumes no previous Visual Basic programming experience. What makes this beginner Visual Basic 6 book different from others is that it provides a free copy of the Visual Basic 6 Working Model Edition, a product that is identical to Visual Basic 6 Professional Edition except that you cannot create executable files, and a few other features are disabled.
The book is divided into five parts containing related lessons. Part 1 introduces the Visual Basic environment and teaches how to create a user interface. Part 2 teaches how to create program statements using variables, descision structures, and operators. Part 3 shows how to add printer support, error handling art and animation to the user interface. Part 4 discusses different ways to manage data using modules, arrays, processing text files, working with Access databases, and using automation to call Office applications. Finally, Part 5 covers advanced programming techniques such as, ActiveX controls, internet programming, and advanced database management.
The book provides many screen capture illustrations, source code snippets, and many practice files on the included CD-ROM to help you better understand all the concepts.
This is an excellent beginner book that will jump start your Visual Basic career. You may check out other reviews at Amazon.com. They are all excellent.. 
Table of Contents
 Pt. 1. Getting Started with Visual Basic 
 1. Opening and Running a Visual Basic Program 
 2. Writing Your First Program 
 3. Working with Controls 
 4. Working with Menus and Dialog Boxes 
 Pt. 2. Programming Fundamentals 
 5. Visual Basic Variables and Operators 
 6. Using Decision Structures 
 7. Using Loops and Timers 
 Pt. 3. Creating the Perfect User Interface 
 8. Working with Forms, Printers, and Error Handlers 
 9. Adding Artwork and Special Effects 
 Pt. 4. Managing Corporate Data 
 10. Using Modules and Procedures 
 11. Working with Collections and Arrays 
 12. Exploring Text Files and String Processing 
 13. Managing Access Databases 
 14. Connecting to Microsoft Office 
 Pt. 5. Professional Edition Tools and Techniques 
 15. Word Processing with the Rich Textbox Control 
 16. Displaying Progress and Status Information 
 17. Integrating Music and Video with the Multimedia MCI Control 
 18. Beyond Visual Basic: Using the Windows API 
 Pt. 6. Internet Programming Fundamentals 
 19. Downloading Files with the Internet Transfer Control 
 20. Displaying HTML Documents with Internet Explorer 
 21. Designing Dynamic HTML Pages for the Web 
 22. Adding Toolbox Elements and ActiveX Controls to DHTML Pages 
 Pt. 7. Advanced Database Programming 
 23. Managing Data with the FlexGrid Control 
 24. Exploring ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) 
Order from Amazon and get a 20% discount!
 
 
 
Email us your comments:"mail" border=0>
Fax: 1(916)404-7719 
©1999-2000 VisualBasicBooks.com. All rights reserved.
 
