 
 
 
 
	
	
Best VB Web Links - searchVB.com: The VB Specific Search Engine
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
 Best Web LinksBasicsPublications 
 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 PUBLICATIONS: 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 10 Links 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	Windows and .Net programming resources
	 Wintellect.com, a programming and training firm, has aggregated many of its faculty's articles and papers from a range of well-known industry publications. The content includes John Robbins' Bugslayer columns as well as other features and tutorials from MSDN Magazine, Microsoft Systems Journal, C++ Developers Journal and XML Magazine, just to name a few. You'll also want to check out the newsletter archive for tips and sample code.
	Source: Wintellect.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Back OfficeVBA Issues
	 Did your dog eat that old issue of OfficeVBA magazine? Don't fret, cause a lot of the quality information is still available online. Go back to the issues from months past to find the information you need about a specific part of VBA.
	Source: OfficeVBA.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	VBA Solutions in Industry
	 You need solutions to your VBA queries? Read up on the latest solutions in 'VBA solutions in Industry' online magazine. These readily updated features are jam-packed with information. Also see the bottom of the page where more solutions are available from previous months.
	Source: OfficeVBA.com
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Software Development
	 Each month you can come to expect a nice smattering of feature pieces from Software Development Online. This free site allows you to read buyers guides and read reviews of products and services. Software Development Online also has a handful of forums to spout your software knowledge in. 
	Source: Software Development Online
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Visual Basic Online
	 Take advantage of all that Visual Basic Online has to offer. This online magazine has dozens of free write-ups about VB and developer related issues. One nice section on this site is the extensive amount of product reviews penned by the VB Online staff. This site also has a lengthy collection of VB links and software listings.
	Source: Visual Basic Online
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	MSDN Magazine
	 If you are looking for some well written, highly informatative articles, MSDN is a great place to begin looking. This Microsoft publication has many features and tools for any VB developer. A plus about MSDN is that a lot of the information packed in to the magazine is free and readily available to the online user. For full access you'll have to shell out 34.95/year for a 12-month subscription. Additionally, on the site find source code, back issues and reader reviews and messages about articles. Aside from Visual Basic, MSDN covers Microsoft tools and technologies like C++, COM/DCOM, ASP and Windows 2000. 
	Source: Microsoft 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Inside Microsoft Visual Basic
	 Get Inside the VB world with this ZDNet family publication. This 16-page journal has in-depth articles, tips, code samples and more. But don't expect to find too much in the way of free content on this site. You can access a couple of articles, but many are reserved for subscribers only. If you really must read something, then there is a pay-per-view section where you can purchase individual articles for $5 bucks a read. And if tips are your thing, you can sign up for a mailing service that will deliver VB tips right to your inbox.
	Source: Element K Journals 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Access-VB-SQL Magazine
	 Visit Advisor's Access-VB-SQL publication site to find out the newest items added to the 'Advisor'. While it is frustrating that you cannot read most of the latest content, the site still has a number of back articles and samples of the most recent articles for free that make this page worth viewing. 'Advisor' also has tips, forums and a basket of resources to peruse aside from its regular reporting agenda. One year subscription is $39.
	Source: Advisor
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Visual Basic Programmer's Journal
	 Visual Basic Programmers Journal is THE publication when it comes to Visual Basic related issues and development.
	Source: VBPJ
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Just Another Visual basic Site
	 This site contains links to hundreds of Visual Basic articles found on the internet. Search by author, magazine, or keyword. Be sure to check out this site if you're searching for articles. 	
	Source: JAVS 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	1 - 10 of 10 Links 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
 
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Hot Off The Press: 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Introduction Part I 
	Price: $ 60.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Using ASP Components 
	Price: $ 149.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Database Access Part I 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	>> 
	
	Visual Basic 6 Advanced 
	Price: $ 30.00 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 RELATED INFORMATION: 
	>> MORE 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	Search for: 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	About search
	 
	| Advanced search
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	Featured Topic: 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 Certification: Pros and Cons
	As two of the best-known and most widely-pursued IT certifications, it's important to understand the costs and benefits of MCSE and MCSA. Certification guru Ed Tittel provides insight into where certification is heading. 
	 
	More Featured Topics
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	 
	 
 
	
 
 
	
	
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
