
VB Techniques: User Agreement Terms and Conditions
 
Home
 &#8226; 
Search
 &#8226; 
Forums
 &#8226; 
Articles
 &#8226; 
Interviews
 &#8226; 
Links
 &#8226; 
Reviews
 &#8226; 
Tip Archive
 &#8226; 
VB 6.0 Toolkit
 &#8226; 
Visual Basic 6.0 Bible
 &#8226; 
About
 
Policy and Guidelines for Editorial Content
One of Northstar Computer Systems' core values is integrity. We promise that our coverage will be 
fair, accurate, and ethical. For us to succeed, users must be able to trust that our news, product 
ratings, and technical recommendations are unbiased and based on fact and careful analysis. 
A media company's challenge is to give its users what they want in a way that leverages the unique 
power of each medium. Part of that power on the Internet is the ability to bring buyers and sellers 
together; in doing so, the line between content and commerce must remain clear. Ethical considerations--such 
as clearly distinguishing editorial content from commerce content--are of the utmost importance so 
as not to confuse or deceive users. 
We have developed guidelines that set out certain minimum standards and fundamental rules in order to 
uphold our credibility. This policy addresses issues such as the receipt of gifts or services to NCS 
employees from companies we cover and the trading of shares in companies we cover, to the distinctions 
between editorial and advertising content. 
NCS Will Disclose Business Relationships in Editorial Content Whenever Relevant
As part of our corporate mission, NCS has business relationships with a 
number of companies in the technology industry. NCS editors disclose business relationships in 
editorial whenever relevant, specifically in any content where a NCS partner is a 
primary subject. Ordinary advertising relationships, content distribution agreements, or 
service contracts do not require disclosure. 
Ads Will Be Labeled As Ads
NCS is an advertising-driven business. We generate revenue by selling advertisements in the 
form of banners and sponsorships. Advertisements or links that differ from the standards 
specified by the Internet Advertising Bureau 
are labeled advertisement, advertiser links, sponsor, or sponsored links. 
A number of advertisements do not need labeling because they are obviously ads. 
Editorial Neutrality
NCS' editorial services are committed to a strict policy of editorial neutrality.
Labeling Content From External Sources
NCS labels content to indicate the source in cases where the information published was not generated by NCS's editorial staff.
Corrections
We are committed to correcting quickly any errors in fact or interpretation. No error brought to the 
attention of an editor or reporter will be allowed to remain in a NCS article. Everything from a misspelled 
name to a gross material error will be corrected in a story's original file so that no inaccuracy remains 
in our permanent archive. We will also provide clarifications of stories that contained no clear error in 
fact but whose wording or headline is open to misinterpretation. 
Linking to External Sites
NCS may link to non-NCS content that could be considered offensive by certain readers. The use of a 
hyperlink never constitutes an endorsement of a company, product, or opinion. The use of the hyperlink 
does not imply that NCS agrees with the content being linked to and provides no guarantee that the 
content contains accurate information. NCS editors are under no obligation to link to any site.
Revised 11/23/2000
 
 
Copyright © 2002 by Northstar Computer Systems.
Contact the webmaster with any comments, questions or problems with the site.
 
