
VB Square - Articles - Life of a VB Programmer - Part 1
 
 
 
Topic Areas
ActiveX
API
Beginning
Controls/Forms
Databases
File/Directory
Graphics
Internet
Miscellaneous
Mouse/Keyboard
Registry
Contents
Articles
Tips
Demo Projects
Books
Resources
Q and A
Tech News
Newsletters
Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home 
 > 
Articles
 
Visual Basic Code
 
 
Search VB Square: 
 
 
 
 
Detailed VB Articles
 
Life of a VB Programmer
By Sam Huggill
Part 1
Please note that any similarity to anyone you know is coincidental.
Well today I arrived at my new job in London.
The company's name is "Lighthouse Software Group" and they are based
in this huge building near the river. The building has about 6 floors (OK, so it’s
not really that big but I seems like it!) Anyway, meeting my new boss was an
interesting experience...
His office was situated on the third floor so
it didn’t take me too long to get there. With half a pound of butterflies in
my stomach, I followed the secretary into his office.
Through the glass door, which looked like it
had been replaced several times (very poorly I might add) I was confronted by a
large amount of cardboard boxes containing, as far as I could make out, new
computer equipment. In the middle of this cardboard city I could just see the
top of a balding head of a very irritated man.
"Ah hello! Looks like you arrived just on
the right day!" he boomed as he stood up to greet me.
After initial introductions to all the right
people he explained to me that the company manager (his boss) had told him that
they needed to move into the 20th century and therefore had splashed
out an amount of money that he wasn’t going to tell me on new computer
equipment for the whole company.
Before I asked why the computers were piled up
in his office, he told me that their "storage area" was currently full
of junk, and to save himself having to distribute the computers himself, he
instructed the delivery people to put each floors’ computers in the head of
departments office and each floor.
Without much further ado my boss got to the
point, what was I going to be doing. "Your first job will be to set-up and
install all the new computers on this floor. But don’t worry" he said,
"I will get a couple of people to give you a hand"
The company was made up of several different
departments, each one taking up about one floor with about 50 people assigned to
different departments within that floor. Each floor was responsible for one
particular thing in the company.
For example, the 1st floor mainly
contained the reception area and some meetings rooms, and the 2nd
floor was the internet department. They took care of web design and hosting for
several clients, and, as you would expect, they already had all the latest
computer gear.
The floor above me, floor 4 was into
advertising. They run an online advertising agency called Single Click, who
offer low cost advertising through resellers. They also take care of advertising
for the company (i.e. handouts, leaflets and newsletters)
The 5th and 6th floors
are mainly used for the "people in high places", e.g. The main bosses.
Their offices could be found there, along with a small canteen and a few other
meetings rooms.
And finally, me new floor, the 3rd
floor. On this floor there is a range of applications development teams using
Visual Basic, Visual C++ and Java to develop applications for our clients.
My main area is Visual Basic, so naturally I
suppose after setting up these new computers, I will be working with a small
team in VB (at least, that is was the job description said!)
After a quick tour around the office I decided that the high management who
had ordered this upgrade was probably saving the company from certain death.
Most of the machines I saw were 486s running Windows 3.1, and when I came to
the VB development area, I found VB 4 was the primary development tool!
 
 
So I rushed back into my boss's office to start shifting the boxes. A
couple of people (as promised) gave me a hand and then started to unpack some of
the equipment. From reading one of the labels, I saw that these new machines
were Pentium 400’s with 12GB Hard drives, 128MB RAM and 17" screens!
I had to tell the others to stop as they jumped upon the boxes like hungry
animals, because I realized that we needed to plan where the machines were going
to go. As we had two new file servers, I asked to see where the existing file
servers resided. For the first time that day I was impressed. Two nice rack
mounted servers with UPS’s, surge protectors and even a dedicated phone all in
a nice air conditioned room!
 
 
What didn’t impress me was when I looked at the back of the cases where the
servers were. I think one word can describe what I saw, "cables!" Yes,
there were literally hundreds of cables coming from everywhere, and worst of
all, they were all the same colour! I realized that it would take several hours
just to sort this lot out.
Anyway, on returning to the main office, we decided that we would find some
space and put up a couple of tables and install all the software on all the
computers and get it working so the possibility of the computers working when we
moved them into their actual locations could be slightly increased.
 
 
After waiting for about 10 minutes while one of the three of us dashed off to
find out where we could go, we started to shift all the boxes down to the
basement. Apparently the person in charge there had got in serious trouble for
dumping the computers in the offices that he had cleared up the mess and even
rushed off to get us some tables when we arrived.
By five o’clock we had managed to get both of the file servers set up and
about six of the workstations all working correctly.
 
 
As I left the building feeling quite satisfied that this was the place for
me, I wandered back to the tube station to return to my flat.
 
Part 2 
 
 
 
Question, Query, Criticism?
Post your feedback now! 4 comments. 
 
 
In this article
 
- 
Part 1 
- 
Part 2 
- 
Part 3 
 
Email this page 
 
Printer Friendly 
 
More From Sam 
 
Post Feedback 
More Articles
 
- 
Subclassing: What's it all about 
- 
Posting to CGI scripts 
- 
Create a hotkey for your application 
- 
Using the Internet Transfer Control: Part 3 
Free Newsletter
 
 
 
 
 
Hot Picks
 
- 
Using the inet control 
- 
Make a Chart control! 
- 
Life of a VB programmer 
- 
MS Object Models 
 
 
 
 
 VB Square Today
 
Beginning Objects in VB - Learn all you ever wanted to know about objects in our weekly series.
Learn XML - Catch up on this new technology as Sam Huggill reveals all.
Using ASP with VB components - Leverage your VB skills and use ASP to provide your data to a wider audience
Is MCSD Worth It? - Mack Male finds out just how much MCSD does for you as a programmer.
 
 
 
 
Copyright ©1997-2001 Lighthouse Internet Solutions. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy.
 
