
VB Helper: Books: By Rod Stephens
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 
 What's New
 Index
 Books
 Links
 Q & A
 Newsletter
 Banners
 
 Feedback
 Tip Jar
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Old Pages
 
 Old Index
 Site Map
 What's New
 
 Books
 How To
 Tips & Tricks
 Tutorials
 Stories
 Performance
 Essays
 Links
 Q & A
 New in VB6
 Free Stuff
 Pictures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Books: By Rod Stephens 
 
 
 
 
 
 This page describes my books 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Visual Basic .NET Database Programming
$20.99, 450 pages, paperback.
While ADO.NET is is some small ways similar to ADO, using databases in VB.NET presents a whole new set of challenges.
This book explains how to use ADO.NET to manipulate databases in Visual Basic .NET applicaitons. It shows how to use the new database 
objects, design and build databases using MSDE, store data in XML files, bind controls to data objects, and manipulate databases directly. 
 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 
 Visual Basic .NET and XML
$39.99, 503 pages, paperback.
By providing a simple, flexible data storage format, XML is positioned to become the lingua franca of data transfer. This book explains how you can take advantage of XML in your Visual Basic .NET applications. 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 Prototyping with Visual Basic
$39.99, 410 pages, paperback.
This book describes tried and tested prototyping techniques you can use when building Visual Basic applications. Aircraft and auto manufacturers don't risk millions on untested designs without building prototypes first. Why should you? 
 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 
 Visual Basic Graphics Programming
$49.99, 712 pages, paperback with CD.
Add sophisticated graphics to your Visual Basic programs. High resolution printing, fractals, tilings, two- and three-dimensional graphics, hidden surfaces, lighting models, ray tracing, image processing, animation, curve fitting, etc. 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 Ready-to-Run Visual Basic Code Library
$49.99, 424 pages, paperback with CD.
More than 170 detailed example programs demonstrating basic, intermediate, and advanced techniques for solving real-world programming problems. Learn to work with numbers, manipulate databases, handle text, format output, get the most out of ListBox, ComboBox, TabStrip, and other controls, use menus, etc. 
 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 
 Bug Proofing Visual Basic
$39.99, 397 pages, paperback.
This book teaches programming skills that every Visual Basic developer should have. It explains ways to minimize the number of errors in your programs, methods for exposing errors so they are easy to fix, and techniques for correctly handling unexpected errors that do occur. 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 Ready-To-Run Visual Basic Algorithms, Second Edition
$49.99, 395 pages, paperback with CD.
Extend your applications with powerful algorithms written in Visual Basic. Sorting, searching, trees, hashing, advanced recursion, network algorithms, object-oriented programming, and much more. Visual Basic Algorithms updated and expanded for Visual Basic 5/6. 
 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 
 Custom Controls Library
$49.99, 684 pages, paperback with CD.
101 custom VB5/6 controls ready to plug into any Visual Basic program or use on a Web page. This book includes instructions for using the controls in many environments (C++, Delphi, etc.) and comes with a working copy of Microsoft Visual Basic 5.0 Control Creation Edition (CCE). 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 Advanced Visual Basic Techniques
$39.99, 440 pages, paperback with CD.
Add advanced features to your Visual Basic applications. Most recently used file (MRU) lists, splash screens and about dialogs, print preview at multiple scales, ad hoc queries, rotated fonts, non-rectangular forms, etc. 
 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk] 
 
 
 Ready-to-Run Delphi Algorithms
$49.99, 398 pages, paperback with CD.
The Delphi edition of the popular book Ready-to-Run Visual Basic Algorithms. Extend your applications with powerful algorithms written in Delphi. Sorting, searching, trees, hashing, advanced recursion, network algorithms, object-oriented programming, and much more. Written for Delphi 3.0 but still useful in later editions. 
 
[Learn more - Amazon.com - Amazon.co.uk]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright © 1997-2001 Rocky Mountain Computer Consulting, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Updated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
