
Programming Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visual Basic Books
Home
Beginner Visual Basic Books
Database Visual Basic Books
ActiveX Visual Basic Books
Advanced Visual Basic Books
VB Internet Programming Books
Resources
Visual Basic Links
Add a Link
Subscribe to Mailing List
 
 
 
 
Programming Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0
 
Author: Francesco Balena
Publisher: Microsoft Press 
 
 
Review
 
This book gives the reader the most comprehensive look at Visual Basic 6 that I have seen. Of all the VB books which I have reviewed this is the only one which I can truly recommend to Visual Basic programmers of all levels, from beginners to experienced. You may be asking yourself how one book can suit the needs of such a wide range of Visual Basic programmers. Part 1 of the book, which consists of the first eight chapters, covers all of the basics in an extremely clear and comprehensive fashion. This allows beginners to VB to grasp a solid understanding of the basic foundations of VB6 before exploring the more advanced features of the language in later chapters. Those who have some VB experience and feel they don't need to read the first eight chapters can simply skim through them and read the remaining chapters 9-20 which offer some of the best in-depth comprehensive coverage of advanced VB6 topics that I have seen in any Visual Basic 6 book.
The book covers all of the new features to VB6, such as, ADO, DHTML, and WebClasses, just to mention a few. It contains an excellent tutorial on object-oriented programming, an in-depth reference to VB and the VBA language, a close look at ADO technology, internet programming, a transition guide for VB5 developers, and finally a digest of advanced programming techniques. The CD-ROM which is included with the book contains 150 sample projects and 100 class modules, a library of over 170 reusable routines for strings, math, array, date/time, controls, file, database, registry, mouse, and keyboard operations.
This is one book which every VB6 programmer no matter what level they are at, needs to have by their side. 
You can check out some other reviews at Amazon.com 
Table of Contents
 
 
 Part 1: The Basics
 Chapter 1 First Steps with Microsoft Visual Basic 6 
 
 Chapter 2 Introduction to Forms 
 
 Chapter 3 Intrinsic Controls
 
 Chapter 4 Variables and Procedures 
 
 Chapter 5 The Visual Basic for Applications and Visual Basic Libraries 
 
 Chapter 6 Classes and Objects
 
 
 Chapter 7 Events, Polymorphism, and Inheritance
 
 Chapter 8 Databases 
 Part 2: The User Interface
 
 Chapter 9 Advanced Forms and Dialogs
 Chapter 10 Windows Common Controls: Part 1
 Chapter 11 Windows Common Controls: Part 2
 Chapter 12 Other ActiveX Controls
 Part 3: Database Programming
 Chapter 13 The ADO Object Model
 Chapter 14 ADO at Work
 Chapter 15 Tables and Reports
 Part 4: ActiveX Programming
 Chapter 16 ActiveX Components
 Chapter 17 ActiveX Controls
 Chapter 18 ADO Components
 Part 5: Internet Programming
 Chapter 19 Dynamic HTML Applications
 Chapter 20 Internet Information Server Applications
 Appendix Windows API Functions
 
 
 Index
read other reader reviews
Order from Amazon and get a 30% discount!
 
 
Email us your comments:"mail" border=0>
Fax: 1(916)404-7719 
©1999-2002 VisualBasicBooks.com. All rights reserved.
 
