
Mortgages
Beverley Building Society offers a variety of mortgage products all designed to meet
your personal requirements. As the local building society, we have vast experience of the culture,
employment and housing in the area, which helps us adapt to your particular needs.
For instance, the Society's residential mortgage interest rate is currently half a percent below the
majority of high street lenders. This product will not of course cater for all our customers' needs and therefore
the Society has other options available including flexible, tracker, fixed rate, discounted and first time buyer schemes.
At Beverley Building Society, we can tailor-make a mortgage to meet your individual
requirements. Our approach means that a combination of products can be blended to give you
flexibility. Our qualified and helpful staff are always eager to listen to your needs and help you find
the right mortgage.
So whether you are an existing homeowner, thinking of additional borrowing, planning to move, or
buying your first home, come and talk to us. We will give you an honest and open answer and you will be
surprised how we can personalise a mortgage to review your particular needs.
And don't forget, if
you have your current mortgage elsewhere, we would welcome the opportunity to meet your mortgage
requirements.
On all our products the Society will fund any higher lending fee where the
mortgage is up to 90% of the purchase price or valuation whichever is the lower. Mortgage
products currently available include:
Fixed Rates
Flexible Base Rate Tracker
2 Year Discount followed by Capped Rate
Residential
Buy To Let (only available for property within a 50 mile radius of Beverley)
Capital Raising (interest only)
Equity Release (only available for property in the East Yorkshire region)
Fixed Rates
- Repayments fixed for term
- 3 months free mortgage protection insurance (subject to eligibility)
- You don't have to move house to qualify
When you choose a fixed rate mortgage, not only do you know that your household budget won't be affected by interest
rate change, but in addition:
- There is no early repayment charge beyond the fixed rate period
- You don't have to take our property insurance
- You don't have to be moving home to apply for these fixed rates
What's more, if you want to move home before your fixed rate ends, you can take the fixed rate (up
to the original loan amount) with you as part of your new loan.
But Hurry
Fixed rate funds are limited and these offers may be withdrawn at short notice.
To avoid disappointment, you should send your completed application form to
us without delay.
FIVE YEAR FIXED RATE UNTIL 30TH MARCH 2007 - SUSPENDED 
5.60% APR 5.90% 
£295 completion fee added to mortgage account. 
TWO YEAR FIXED RATE UNTIL 30TH MARCH 2004 - SUSPENDED 
4.85% APR 5.70% 
£195 completion fee added to mortgage account. 
Available on loans up to 75% of valuation or purchase price whichever is the lower. 
- There is no tie-in after the fixed rate ends.
- All we ask is that you keep your loan for at least the duration of the fixed rate period.
- If you wish to repay the loan earlier a redemption charge of 5% of the amount repaid will be made, eg if £10,000 is repaid the charge will be £10,000 x 5% = £500.
How it works
With these loans, the interest rate you pay remains the same for the fixed rate period, whether our
variable base mortgage rate goes higher or lower than the fixed rate you have chosen.
Administration charge
The fixed rate products have a completion fee of £295 which will be added to the mortgage account.
When the fixed rate ends
At the end of the fixed rate period, your loan will switch to our 'Residential'
variable rate, currently 5.25% APR of 5.70%.
This rate is currently 0.65% below the Society's variable base mortgage rate. 
It could be higher or lower than the rate you have been paying and may vary over the remaining term of
your mortgage.
Please click to read the small print which contains important information, a typical example and details of charges.
Back to top of page
Flexible Base Rate Tracker
- Interest rate guaranteed
- Interest calculated daily
- Interest rate guaranteed to be:
	 1.0% above bank base rate up to 95%
- No conditions attached (e.g. no compulsory insurance)
- 3 months free mortgage protection insurance (subject to eligibility)
- Maximum loan 95% of purchase price or valuation (whichever is the lower)
- Underpayments available with consent.
- Facility for further funds available with consent
Your Mortgage Rate
The interest rate is currently
 5.00% (APR of 5.70%)
Please click to read the small print which contains important information, a typical example and details of charges.
Back to top of page
Two Year Discount followed by Capped Rate
- A discount for two years followed by capped rate at 6.25% until 31st March 2007
- 3 months free mortgage protection insurance (subject to eligibility)
- You don't have to move home to qualify
Take out a Discount Mortgage and keep your monthly outgoings lower for a two year period followed by a capped period up to 31st March 2007.
You can apply for a Discount Mortgage whether you are moving home or simply moving your
mortgage from another lender.
With a Discount Mortgage, you'll enjoy lower payments in the first years of your mortgage.
How much will your discount be?
Your Discount
 
1.00% off variable residential rate for two years
 
Followed by capped rate until 31st March 2007 at 6.25%
 
£195.00 completion fee
 
Your mortgage rate
The variable residential rate applies to our Discount Mortgage, giving current discounted rates of:
4.25% APR of 5.80%
When the scheme ends
At the end of the capped period, your loan will simply switch to the 'Residential' mortgage rate
which is currently 5.25% APR of 5.70%.
Arranging your mortgage
In return for the benefit of a discount, all we ask is that you keep your mortgage until 31st March 2007 or pay an early repayment charge if you repay the loan within that period (see below for details).
Early Repayment charge
If you repay your loan or make a capital repayment before 31st March 2007, you will have to pay an early repayment charge of 4% of the amount repaid will be made e.g if £10,000 is repaid the charge will be £10,000 x 4% = £400. The charge will not apply if you move the loan to another house.
Please click to read the small print which contains important information, a typical example and details of charges.
Back to top of page
Residential
- Variable rate
- Permanent discount
- No strings attached
- 3 months free mortgage protection insurance (subject to eligibility)
Take out a Residential variable rate mortgage and you will have the advantage of a discount, currently 0.65% off the Society's variable base mortgage rate,plus flexibility to repay all or part of the loan anytime without penalty.
Interest Rate
5.25% APR of 5.70% including 0.65% discount
 
Back to top of page
For more information on how Beverley Building Society can help you, call into our offices or phone
+44 (0)1482 881510 to find out details of your nearest agent. Alternatively, e-mail
your request or complete the form on our 'Contact Us' page.
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
Welcome | Mortgages | Investment Savings | Contact Us | Home
 
