
Company Profile Home Page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Background 
 Directors 
 Market
 Overview 
 Mortgage
 Process 
 Strategy 
 
 
 
 Mortgage
 Process
 
With
 many of the processing functions relating to the origination and
 servicing of mortgage loans outsourced, Kensington&#146;s management
 team is able to focus on the more critical areas of the business
 including:
 
 
 
 
- 
 
approving
 loan applications;
 
 
 
- 
 
maintaining
 reconciliation and other financial controls over the systems
 operated by HML;
 
 
 
- 
 
reviewing
 the arrears management and collections process;
 
 
 
- 
 
developing
 relationships with the providers of short-term loan facilities;
 
 
 
- 
 
developing
 securitisation structures for off-balance sheet funding;
 
 
 
- 
 
controlling
 the marketing and advertising of Kensington&#146;s products and
 promoting the brand name;
 
 
 
- 
 
developing
 new products and the ongoing review of existing products; and
 
 
 
- 
 
establishing
 relationships with Packagers and providing on-site support for
 their Kensington related activities.
 
 
 
 
The
 Kensington mortgage process is split into six constituent parts:
 
 
 
 
- 
 
Distribution
 Management;
 
 
 
- 
 
Product
 Development;
 
 
 
- 
 
Risk
 Management and Underwriting;
 
 
 
- 
 
Funding
 and Securitisation;
 
 
 
- 
 
Customer
 Administration; and
 
 
 
- 
 
Knowledge
 Management.
 
 
 
 
Loan
 categories
 
 
 
 
There
 are currently four broad loan categories, which are sub-divided into
 a number of products. The four loan categories are:
 
 
 
 
- 
 
&#147;Status&#148;
 where borrowers must prove their income in support of their loan
 application;
 
 
 
- 
 
&#147;Self-certified&#148;
 where borrowers are not required to fully prove their income in
 support of their loan application;
 
 
 
- 
 
&#147;Buy
 to Let&#148; where the property is let by the borrower as an
 investment; and
 
 
 
- 
 
&#147;Right
 to Buy&#148; where borrowers are purchasing properties from a local
 authority under the Housing Act 1985.
 
 
 
 
For
 details of our current products, please click
 here
 
Rates
 and charges
 
 
 
Interest
 rates are set quarterly and are a fixed percentage over either the
 London Inter Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR")
 or the Kensington Variable Rate, "KVR". Kensington finances its mortgage
 portfolio through short-term loan facilities which carry interest
 rates fixed by reference to "LIBOR" and a margin.
 
 
 
In
 addition, Kensington offers fixed and discount rates for a short
 initial time period on certain loans.
 
 
 
All
 borrowers are required to pay early redemption charges if the loan
 is repaid in the first three years. The level of charge depends on
 the product variant chosen by the borrower, but is set prior to
 completion of the loan. All applicants are also charged a fee on
 completion of the loan.
 
 
 
Ancillary
 Products
 
 
 
 
Kensington
 requires its borrowers to have buildings insurance over the security
 property. Kensington offers to arrange for its borrowers certain
 insurance cover, most importantly buildings and contents insurance
 and mortgage payment protection cover. These insurance products are
 underwritten by large recognised insurance underwriters. Kensington's
 borrowers are, however, under no obligation to purchase any such
 products from Kensington.
 
 
Risk
 Management and Underwriting
 
 
 
Underwriting
 process
 
 
 
 
Kensington
 uses a carefully controlled underwriting process to assess loan
 applications and to ensure that its lending criteria are applied
 rigorously. All underwriters are issued with comprehensive lending
 policy manuals and operational procedures manuals to reinforce the
 underwriting methodology. Packagers receive manuals providing
 guidance on lending criteria, procedures and types of borrower and
 property acceptable to Kensington. This information is in turn
 circulated to other intermediaries. This makes the loan approval
 process more efficient because applications submitted to Packagers,
 and in turn from them to Kensington&#146;s underwriters, are more
 likely to conform to the lending criteria.
 
 
 
Kensington's
 underwriters review each application for a mortgage loan (whether
 or not submitted via a Packager) and ensure that it conforms to
 Kensington&#146;s lending criteria. Only when an application has been
 reviewed and approved by a Kensington underwriter is an offer of a
 mortgage loan issued. 
 
 
 
To
 assist the underwriters and to ensure consistency of data capture,
 Kensington has developed bespoke underwriting software. This
 software reinforces the underwriting procedures by checking the data
 against Kensington&#146;s lending criteria for the product being
 approved.
 
 
 
Packagers
 
 
 
Packagers
 are only appointed after an extensive checking and approval process,
 including visits by senior sales and underwriting managers. When
 appointed, all Packagers must be registered with the "MCCB" and hold a
 current "CCA" License. The Management Credit Committee gives the final
 approval for new Packagers and reviews relationships with and the
 performance of existing Packagers.
 
 
 
Funding
 and Securitisation
 
 
 
Kensington
 finances the origination of mortgages on balance sheet using
 short-term loan facilities typically for a term of 364 days with a
 variable interest rate calculated by reference to LIBOR plus a
 margin. It then securitises the loan portfolios, removing them from
 the balance sheet, and uses part of the proceeds to repay the
 short-term loan facilities.
 
 
 
Short-term
 loan facilities
 
 
 
Kensington
 originates mortgages through the Origination Subsidiaries, each
 financed by a separate short-term loan facility.
 
Each
 facility is fully secured by a fixed and floating charge over all of
 the assets of the Origination Subsidiary
 including the mortgage loans.
 
 
 
The
 short-term loan facilities are repaid following each securitisation
 by an amount related to the principal balances of the mortgage loans
 sold.
 
 
 
 
Securitisation
 
 
 
 
Background
 
 
 
Kensington
 uses the financing technique of securitisation to gain access to
 long-term funds to support its origination process. When sufficient
 numbers of mortgage loans have been originated by the Origination
 Subsidiaries, they are assigned to an "SPV" Company, which issues debt
 securities secured by the underlying mortgage assets. The SPV
 Company uses the proceeds from the sale of the debt securities to
 pay Kensington for the mortgage loans. Kensington uses part of these
 proceeds to repay the short-term loan facilities.
 
 
 
Market
 Positioning
 
 
 
Kensington
 was the first specialist non-conforming mortgage lender in the UK to
 carry out securitisations: 
 
 
 
- 
 
 with securities denominated in Euros and
 US dollars;
 
 
 
 
- 
 
including Detachable A Coupons and Mortgage Early
 Redemption Certificates; and 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
 including prefunding.
 
 
 
 
RMS
 1 and RMS 2 securities were upgraded in August 2000 by Standard
 & Poor&#146;s and Fitch with securities originally rated A upgraded
 to AA, and those originally rated BB being
 upgraded to BBB.
 RMS 1 closed down in march 2001. RMS 3 and RMS 4 were upgraded in
 March 2001
 by Fitch Rating with Class M notes rated A being upgraded to AA and
 Class B notes rated BB being upgraded to BBB.
 
 
The
 most recent transaction, RMS 9, had three AAA rated Note tranches
 (Sterling slow pay, US Dollar fast pay and US Dollar slow pay) which
 were sold to 23 investors (5 Sterling slow pay, 8 US Dollar fast
 pay, 10 US Dollar slow pay). The investors comprised banks, building
 societies and funds from the UK, Europe, the USA and Australasia.
 
 
 
Structure
 
 
 
The
 RMS deals are structured with the senior rated bonds supported by
 subordinated bonds, liquidity facilities and reserve funds. The
 senior bonds are rated AAA and typically account for 87-88 per cent.
 of the transaction. The subordinated bonds are rated A and either
 BBB or BB. The size of the reserve fund (typically 1-2 per cent. of
 the transaction) and the liquidity facility depends on the exact
 structure chosen for the transaction.
 
 
 
Investments
 
 
 
Kensington
 purchases certain of the securities issued by SPV Companies, funding
 its acquisition by a secured term loan facility from, typically, one
 of the lenders providing short-term credit facilities to the
 Origination Subsidiaries. These securities are:
 
 
 
(i) 
 Detachable A Coupons: DACs are AAA rated securities which
 represent an interest only entitlement on the senior class (AAA) of
 notes issued in respect of a securitisation by the SPV Company. They
 carry no right to any principal payment and the payment entitlement
 is contingent upon the relevant senior notes, to which the relevant
 DACs were originally attached, remaining outstanding. The senior
 class of notes in respect of each securitisation is redeemed out of
 principal receipts from borrowers, prior to payment
 of the subordinated notes. High prepayment rates in respect of
 mortgage loans will cause the senior notes to be redeemed quicker
 and will therefore reduce the value of the DACs.
 
 
 
(ii) 
 Mortgage
 Early Redemption Certificates: MERCs are AAA rated securities which
 represent a pass through entitlement to receive redemption charges
 paid to an SPV Company by a borrower upon early redemption of the
 relevant loan. A high rate of early repayment of loans will result
 in an increase in the value of the MERC. Consequently, the MERCs
 provide a partial hedge to the DACs in respect of increasing and
 reducing prepayment rates.
 
 
 
(iii) C
 Notes: to fund various expenses of, and reserves required in, a
 securitisation, Kensington will purchase C Notes issued by the SPV
 Company. These securities will suffer any losses incurred as a
 result of there being insufficient excess cash over the life of the
 securitisation to pay the C Note interest due and to repay the C
 Note principal. The reserve fund released on the maturity of the
 securitisation can also be used to repay Kensington (as holder of
 the C Notes). In earlier
 transactions these Notes were referred to as start-up loans.
 
 
 
(iv) 
 Residual
 Certificates: RCs carry an entitlement to all residual revenue (less
 a small retained profit after the C Notes have been repaid) received
 by the SPV Companies. Earlier transactions provided for the payment
 of deferred consideration represented by the residual revenue
 generated by the SPV Companies. Kensington does not attribute any
 balance sheet value to either the Residual Certificates or the
 deferred consideration. Any income is accounted for on receipt.
 
 
 
These
 SPV Investments are valued by Kensington at original cost. The cost
 of the DACs and MERCs are amortised monthly over their estimated
 life. The net balance sheet value of the C Notes is reviewed monthly
 for possible impairment. 
 
 
 
 
Prefunding
 
 
 
In
 the more recent securitisations, the relevant SPV Companies
 have raised, by way of funding in the capital markets, principal in
 excess of the sum used to acquire the initial pool of loans. The
 excess is placed on deposit with a suitably rated bank at a
 guaranteed minimum interest rate and is used over a period
 (typically not exceeding three months) to enable the SPV Company to
 acquire further loans from the relevant loan originators. This
 process is known as &#147;prefunding&#148; and enables Kensington to
 reduce the use of short-term loan facilities.
 
 
 
Recourse
 to Kensington following Securitisation
 
 
 
Once
 a portfolio of loans has been sold by the Origination Subsidiary to
 the SPV Company, Kensington retains liability in relation to the
 loans sold in respect of:
 
 
 
 
- 
 
representations
 and warranties provided by the Origination Subsidiary in favour
 of the SPV Company, in relation to, amongst other things,
 compliance with lending and eligibility criteria and
 non-default; and
 
 
 
- 
 
where
 the value of Unverified Loans exceeds the assumptions made for
 the purpose of that securitisation,
 the Origination Subsidiary&#146;s obligation to repurchase loans with a
 face value equal to such excess.
 
 
 
 
Arrears
 and Loss Mitigation
 
 
 
Through
 the process of securitisation, Kensington sells portfolios of
 mortgage loans to SPV Companies for cash which the SPV Companies
 raise by issuing debt securities in the capital markets. By selling
 the mortgages, Kensington transfers the principal risk of default
 and associated losses on those mortgage loans to the SPV Companies.
 
 
 
Under
 the securitisation structure, Norland Capital Limited assumes the role of
 special servicer responsible for providing instructions to HML and
 exercising certain discretions relating to the portfolio on behalf
 of the SPV Company, for which Norland Capital Limited receives a fee.
 
 
 
As
 described above, Kensington also purchases SPV Investments,
 including C Notes. The total return on C Notes over their lives can
 be impaired if the performance of the portfolio, in particular as
 regards arrears and losses, turns out to be significantly worse than
 expected. Kensington is thus further incentivised to ensure the
 optimum performance of the portfolio in providing services to the
 SPV Company.
 
 
 
The
 arrears and loss performance of the securitised portfolios is
 important because this information will be available to potential
 investors in future securitisations who will take into account the
 performance of existing securitised portfolios when deciding whether
 to invest in a new issue. Good historic portfolio performance will
 assist Kensington in executing future securitisations.
 
 
 
Customer
 Administration
 
 
 
Kensington
 contracts with Homeloan Management Limited for the provision of
 administration, processing and issuing of mortgage loan offers, and,
 following completion of the loan, servicing of Kensington&#146;s loan
 portfolio and the mortgage portfolios of the SPV Companies,
 including the collection of interest, fees and other payments due
 from borrowers. HML is a subsidiary of Skipton Building Society and
 services loan portfolios. HML provides full time employees dedicated to
 servicing and administration for Kensington. In addition, Kensington
 employs its own arrears managers, underwriting managers and underwriters
 who are located in HML&#146;s offices underwriting loans and
 monitoring, supervising and managing the administration processes.
 
 
 
Traditional
 lenders might not make any contact with a borrower until the
 borrower is 60 to 90 days in default on an interest payment.
 Kensington&#146;s policy is pro-active, and it has put in place a
 number of processes, which HML implements to Kensington&#146;s service
 standards, designed to reduce losses:
 
 
 
 
- 
 
Borrowers
 are required to make payment by direct debit;
 
 
 
- 
 
Telephone
 numbers are obtained for each borrower prior to the completion
 of their loan and a reminder call is made to them before
 payment is due for the first month. For certain borrowers
 reminder calls are made for the first six payments;
 
 
 
- 
 
Post-completion
 counselling is offered to certain borrowers;
 
 
 
- 
 
A
 telephone call is normally made to all borrowers within 48 hours
 of HML being notified the first time a payment is missed;
 
 
 
- 
 
Debit
 card payments are accepted from borrowers in arrears;
 
 
 
- 
 
Arrears
 counsellors are instructed to visit the majority of borrowers
 where one or two payments are overdue and no arrangement to make
 payment has been agreed;
 
 
 
- 
 
During
 the litigation process, HML continues to try to reach a payment
 solution with the borrower; and
 
 
 
- 
 
Pre-eviction
 counselling is currently provided to the majority of defaulting
 borrowers prior to repossession.
 
 
 
 
Knowledge
 Management
 
 
 
Kensington
 has developed information systems that capture and track information
 on Kensington&#146;s borrowers and their loan history, referred to as
 the Data Warehouse. The
 information is available to Kensington&#146;s management, and
 Kensington also offers limited access to the Data
 Warehouse to third parties (for example, allowing selected Packagers
 to track the progress of their application on-line and bondholders
 to see the performance of the mortgage portfolios underlying
 securitisations on a dedicated website).
 
 
 
Kensington
 utilises its Data Warehouse to help to plan and manage its business.
 The Data Warehouse provides information to assist in origination
 (through better product design, distribution targeting, pricing,
 market positioning and informed lending), funding (improved
 portfolio management and transaction structuring) and customer
 administration (management of arrears, loss mitigation and
 Kensington&#146;s ancillary products and services, including building
 and contents insurance, mortgage payment protection, and further
 advances).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2002 Kensington Group plc
 
 
