
Darlington Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS 
 REVIEW OF 2001 INCLUDING THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL 
 STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 contents 
 
 
 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 
 | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 
 | SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT
| INDEPENDENT AUDITORS'STATEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION
 
 CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I have pleasure in presenting Darlington Building Society's Business 	Review of 2001 together with the Summary Financial Statement and Directors' 
 Report for 2001, a year in which your Society continued to make steady progress in all areas of its business.
 
 William 
 Baker Baker - Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Inevitably the year will be remembered for the attacks on the World Trade Center in September. The global economy, already weakened by the slowdown in activity, suffered a further bout of nervousness. Central banks around the World cut interest rates aggressively and the UK’s Monetary Policy Committee reduced rates for the seventh time to take base rates to 4%, the lowest for some forty years. 
 
 
2001 was also a year in which a twin-speed economy operated. Strong consumer spending, buoyed by the rate cuts, helped drive the retail sectors, and over the year house prices in England and Wales rose by 15.5%. The rest of the economy looked bleaker; a weak traded goods sector, manufacturing at or almost in recession and corporate activity at a new low.
 
In our operating area, Foot & Mouth Disease which struck in February hit a rural community already struggling from a weakened agricultural sector. The scars of this epidemic will take a long time to heal. 
 
We have always operated in a region whose economy is perhaps less robust than other areas, but yet our results for this year under review show that we can succeed in delivering our objectives even in difficult times. The Chief Executive’s report, which follows, highlights some of our successes. In particular, asset growth of 5.4% is a respectable increase and although Group gross lending did not match last year’s level, loans completed by the Society reached a new record of £70m. Your Board’s policy of encouraging the management to look at new ideas continues to bear fruit. The establishment of Darlington Estate Agents (DEAL) to enable members to sell their properties at competitive rates, is one such venture. It will make a good contribution in years to come.
 
 2001 also saw the supervision of building societies pass to the Financial Services Authority from the Building Societies Commission. Its wider regulatory powers have represented a challenge to the entire financial services industry and inevitably, there will be more regulation in the future. Regrettably, the added costs will need to be borne by the consumer. It may lead to some smaller financial firms reviewing their options. However, we do not intend to let the increased regulatory burdens put pressure on your Board, for we remain convinced that mutuality is the best strategic option for your Society. 
 
Sir Colin Harrison retired from the Board at the conclusion of last year’s AGM. Sir Colin served as a Director of the Society for 24 years, 9 of them as Vice Chairman. We are grateful for his wide experience, wisdom and guidance over those years and wish him a happy retirement. My thanks go to my fellow Directors, upon whom I make increasing demands of their time and experience. I am also grateful to all the staff who have had to cope with a difficult year, but yet remain enthusiastic champions and ambassadors of the Society. 
 
Despite the turbulence of the last year and a clouded economic outlook, your Society will meet competitive pressures head on and will continue to satisfy our members’ needs by delivering timely and cost effective products. 
 
 
William Baker Baker 
 Chairman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW
 
 CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I am pleased to report that 2001 was a successful year in the fulfilment of our service and operational objectives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Peter Rowley - Chief 
 Executive 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I am pleased to report that 2001 was a successful year in the fulfilment of our service and operational objectives. In particular: 
- our mortgage and savings products featured regularly in "best buy" tables and our range of investment services improved,
- we expanded Group services by launching DEAL, our wholly owned estate agency in Darlington and Hartlepool,
- we increased our networks of community branches and cash machines,
- we undertook extensive systems improvements in preparation for a new regulatory and supervisory regime that took effect from 1st December,
- we completed a substantial revision of our computer programmes so that all borrowers will be able to benefit from a new method of calculating interest daily rather than annually,
- we achieved a record inflow of funds from investing members, and
- the Society’s gross advances reached a new record, thereby reducing our appetite to acquire mortgage portfolios from other lenders.
 
 
As a regional provider of financial services committed to "looking after local interests" we remain fundamentally branch based in the delivery of our range of savings, mortgages and related investment services. As the only mutual organisation dedicated to serving our principal operating region of County Durham, North Yorkshire and the Tees Valley we already offer more outlets in that area than any other building society or mortgage bank. Having helped members to finance their homes for over 145 years, we have listened to members’ views and in fulfilment of their needs we complemented existing services by offering the opportunity to sell their properties through DEAL - Darlington Estate Agents - which opened offices in Darlington in April and Hartlepool in July. Members utilising the service are able to benefit from a high quality service at a fixed fee which is lower than that paid by non-members and indeed substantially below that charged by other operators. This new initiative for the Group achieved its initial sales target ahead of schedule and with the confidence of parts of the house buying public in our region higher than for some years, DEAL looks forward to making further progress during 2002 and beyond. 
 
DEAL is a trading name of Darlington Homes Ltd., which during the year completed the development and sale of 20 new and part-exchange properties on the final phase of a site at Carlisle. It also received planning permission to develop a site in Darlington upon which development shall commence during 2002. It will represent a major investment for the Group in the town. 
 
Although our connected undertakings deployed considerable resource, we also improved branch services during the year. In particular, we opened a new community branch at Saltburn by the Sea and our network of cash machines was extended to Stockton and Cockerton branches. Our VISA card service was withdrawn at the year end, although existing users will be unaffected. 
 
Liaison with members and their transactions with us continued to increase in 2001 and we were successful in retaining existing and attracting new business in a number of areas, but particularly in our core deposit taking. Although savers will have been disappointed by the reductions in nominal yields consequent upon the seven decreases in the Bank of England’s base rate during 2001, our gross investment receipts from investing members reached a new record of over £249m, an increase of 26% on the previous year’s record. In particular we retained the custom of many thousands of first and second generation "TESSA” holders who chose to re-invest in our market leading "TESSA only ISA” which complemented our "cash mini ISA” to good effect. Loyal investors were also rewarded with the launch of 2 "roll over” fixed rate bond issues during the year and a new flexible monthly savings plan, "Flexisaver” proved to be popular with existing and new members. We were delighted that the number of savings accounts continued to increase to over 110,000 by the year end and our net shares and other borrowings grew to £434m. Indeed the strong inflow of funds from members enabled us to reduce our modest recourse to deposit funding which remains well below the industry average. Savers can be confident that with every investment earning interest from the day of receipt (unlike some institutions which defer value for up to 10 days) our portfolio of savings products will maintain the attractiveness that a mutual institution affords in 2002. 
 
Our core investment activity was well supported by a record year of growth and contribution by Darlington Investment Planning Ltd., which provides independent financial advice to members of the Society and other customers. More members took the opportunity to access the wider choice of long-term investment opportunities that it offers, enabling it to grow revenues from product sales by over 38% in the year. Additionally "Sharedealer”, our low cost execution only share dealing service provided members with convenient telephone access to equity markets. Our increasingly sophisticated Treasury operations benefited from new systems to support our retail operations efficiently and effectively. 
 
 
The seven reductions in the Bank of England’s base rate during 2001 improved sentiment in the housing market and the affordability of housing finance, during which the Society lent a record £70m to 1,613 borrowers to buy, improve or re-finance their homes. Our fixed rate and discounted variable rate mortgages appeared regularly in "best buy” tables of the national press and re-mortgage activity was a consistent feature of our gross lending in the year. Darlington Mortgage Services Ltd. also acquired one small portfolio of just under £3m from another lender to supplement the Society’s core lending activity. Net of repayments and redemptions Group mortgage assets grew by 5.1% to £361.1m. We also ended the year with our mortgage "pipeline” (applications received but not yet completed) at a record level, which augers well for a good start in 2002. Extensive systems amendments effected during the second half of 2001 will enable borrowers to benefit from a new method of calculating interest known popularly as "daily rest” with effect from 1st January. We also completed a major re-structuring of our member records.
 
Responsibility for the regulation and supervision of building societies passed from the Building Societies Commission to the Financial Services Authority on 1st December. On that date provision for investor protection and complaints handling also changed. We welcome these improvements to protect the consumer, but the new regime incurred substantial management time and cost and utilised scarce resources in preparing for and implementing the changes. All staff worked hard to ensure our readiness for the new framework which will enhance the services that we provide. The Government had intended that mortgage regulation would also fall under the remit of the Financial Services Authority on 1st September 2002. However following an extensive consultation period, this has now been deferred to a date not yet specified, but which we believe is unlikely to be before 2004. We had already made progress in our preparations for the earlier date which will stand us in good stead when the current consultation process is concluded and the revised requirements of the regulator are known. 
 
We are proud to play an important role in the social and economic well being of the region, for the ethos of "looking after local interests" is fundamental to our service provision and operational preferences. It was a pleasure to see that our support for a wide range of arts, care, crime prevention, educational, medical and sporting causes benefited from our community support and involvement. In particular we recorded our eleventh season "not out” as sponsors of one of the oldest cricket leagues in the world - the Darlington Building Society North Yorkshire South Durham Cricket League. Our partnership with The Northern Echo and Century FM produced the largest celebration of grass roots sport in the region at the annual and prestigious "Local Heroes" awards. We built upon our long-standing support of palliative care in Darlington, County Durham and North Yorkshire by becoming the first patron of St. Teresa’s Hospice. 
 
We renewed our association with The Civic Theatre in Darlington and, working with Darlington Borough Council we secured matched funding from "Arts and Business" to help re-generate the Firthmoor district of Darlington and fund a community based arts project. "Helping Hand" - a simple passbook based savings and loan scheme which is exclusive to over 10,000 households who are tenants of five participating housing associations - continued to grow and receive national interest. And so too did our continuing sponsorship of both Third Division professional football teams in our region, Darlington FC and Hartlepool United FC. Our involvement in regional sport also extended to principal sponsorship of Billingham Synthonia FC, Darlington Mowden Park and Redcar Rugby Clubs and many others. 
 
 
The outlook for global, national and regional economies is uncertain and brings many challenges for financial institutions irrespective of their size or scope. As the markets in which we operate evolve and the expectations of consumers increase, the directors and senior management of your Society are obliged to consider the strategic options available. As this review has shown, the interests of existing and future members are best served by the institution’s mutual ownership. The financial results which follow this report demonstrate a further strengthening in our very secure financial position which will enable us to continue to pass on the advantages that our mutual status confers to members. My fellow directors, staff and I are very grateful to you, our members, for the opportunity to do so. 
 
Peter Rowley
 Director and Chief Executive
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT
 
 CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary Financial Statement for the Year ended 31st December 2001 
 
 
This Financial Statement is a summary of information 
 in the audited Annual Accounts, the Directors' Report and Annual 
 Business Statement, all of which will be available to members and 
 depositors free of charge on demand at every office of Darlington 
 Building Society from 4th April 2002. 
 
Approved by the Board of Directors on 6th February 
 2002 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
W G Baker Baker Chairman 
 
 R J Dyke Vice Chairman
 
 P W Rowley Director and Chief Executive
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RESULTS FOR 
 THE YEAR 
 
 
 
 
 
 2001 £,000 
 2000 £,000 
 
 
 
 
Net interest 
 receivable
 Other income and charges
 Administrative expenses
 Provisions 
 
 
 8,167
 1,314
 (6,402)
 (192) 
 7,909
 1,193
 (5,949)
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Profit 
 for the year before taxation
 Taxation 
 2,887
 (914) 
 3,164
 (1,061) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Profit 
 for the year 
 1,973 
 2,103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FINANCIAL POSITION 
 AT END OF YEAR 
 
 
 
 
 Assets 
 2001 £,000 
 2000 £,000 
 
 
 Liquid 
 assets
 Mortgages 
 Fixed and other assets 
 
 
 
101,543
 361,102
 6,854
 
 
 
93,997
 343,541
 7,876
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 469,499 
 445,414 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Liabilities 
 2001 £,000 
 2000 £,000 
 
 
 Shares
 Borrowings 
 Other liabilities
 Reserves 
 
 
375,525
 58,817
 2,326
 32,831
 
 
 
352,190
 59,809
 2,557
 30,858
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 469,499 
 445,414 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SUMMARY OF KEY FINANCIAL 
 RATIOS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NOTES 
 2001 % 
 2000 % 
 
 
 Gross 
 capital as a percentage of shares and borrowings
 Liquid assets as a percentage of shares and borrowings
 Profit for the year as a percentage of mean total assets
 Management expenses as a percentage of mean total assets
 
 1
 2
 3
 4 
 
 
7.6
 23.4
 0.4
 1.4
 
 
 
7.5
 22.8
 0.5
 1.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Notes
 
 1. Gross capital comprises the general reserve 
 of profits retained in the business to provide a financial cushion 
 against any difficulties which might arise and therefore protects 
 investors. When gross capital is expressed as a percentage of shares 
 and borrowings, it illustrates the proportion by which the Group's 
 activities are funded by accumulated reserves. Some societies are 
 obliged to bolster retained profits with other forms of capital 
 such as subordinated liabilities, permanent interest bearing shares 
 and revaluation reserves. The Group gross capital comprises purely 
 retained profits accumulated over many years and demonstrates that 
 it provides a safe home for investors' funds without the need for 
 other forms of third party funding. 
 
2. Liquid assets comprise cash, short term 
 deposits, and authorised investments such as government securities 
 which can be readily converted into cash. The liquid asset ratio 
 measures the proportion that the Group's assets so held bears to 
 the Group's liabilities to investors. Liquid assets enable the 
 Group to meet investors' requests for withdrawals from their accounts, 
 to make new mortgage loans and to fund general business activities. 
 Darlington Building Society maintains a level of liquidity which 
 is appropriate to the activities of the Group. 
 
3. Mean assets are calculated as the mean of 
 the 2001 and 2000 assets as shown in the Group balance sheet. Profit 
 for the year expressed as a percentage of mean assets shows the 
 proportion that the Group's profit after taxation for the year bears 
 to the average of the Group's assets during the year. The Group 
 needs to make a reasonable level of profit each year to be retained 
 in the general reserve to maintain its capital ratio for the protection 
 of investors' funds. Darlington Building Society has a profit for 
 the year as a percentage of mean assets which is consistent with 
 fulfiling the principal business objective. 
 
4. The management expenses ratio measures the 
 proportion that the Group's administrative expenses (including depreciation) 
 bears to the average of the Group's total assets during the year. 
 Management expenses consist mainly of the costs of running the Group's 
 branches including the costs of employing staff. Expenses need to 
 be controlled so that the Group operates as efficiently as possible 
 while providing the service required by our members.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY DIRECTOR'S REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Business Objectives and Activities 
 The Group's principal objective is to sustain 
 financial strength by profitable growth for the permanent benefit 
 of members by:
 
 focusing upon the further development of a 
 strong local franchise within a defined market territory principally 
 comprising County Durham, North Yorkshire and the Tees Valley,
 building a high image and involvement in the community served 
 by our branches, agencies and complementary points of access, 
 promoting and protecting prudent and responsible attitudes 
 to personal savings, home ownership and housing, 
 providing simple, secure and good value savings, housing 
 finance, insurance, investment and complementary services delivered 
 cost effectively and efficiently through trained and motivated staff, 
 
 retaining existing and attracting new members and maintaining 
 their commitment through service to remain a strong independent 
 financial institution in mutual ownership. 
 
Assets
 Total assets of the Group at 31st December 
 2001 amounted to £469.5m, an increase of £24.2m or 5.4% on the 
 previous year.
 
 Liquid assets in the form of cash and authorised 
 securities were £101.5m representing 21.6% of total assets.
 
 Lending 
 During the year the Group advanced £72.8m to 1,691 borrowers to buy, refinance or improve their homes. This was lower than last year’s record £87.8m largely because the Society’s wholly owned subsidiary Darlington Mortgage Services Ltd. was less active than in 2000. Nonetheless it acquired one small portfolio of mortgages in 2001 with aggregate balances of £2.8m. The £70m lent to borrowing members of the Society was a new record, £1.0m higher than the previous year. Total balances of Group loans and advances were £361.1m, 5.1% higher than 12 months’ previously. 
 
Included in the total of 10,995 
 loans and advances at the year end were 22 accounts where payments 
 were 12 months or more in arrears. The total amount outstanding 
 on these loans was £0.8m before any provisions for bad and doubtful 
 debts or suspended interest. The total amount of arrears outstanding 
 on these cases amounted to £0.1m, representing 0.03% of outstanding 
 loan balances. 
 
We continue to provide for potential mortgage losses on a prudent and consistent basis. Although there was an increase in activity and prices in some parts of our operating area, the regional economy remains subdued and improvements in property values lagged behind more buoyant housing markets elsewhere in the country. Indeed some areas and property types continued to fall in value. Consequently, our specific provisions against potential losses where fulfillment of the obligations of a small number of borrowers appears problematical continued to reflect a realistic view of market conditions. 
 
Funding
 At 31st December 2001 the total number of savings accounts stood at 110,425. Balances invested by shareholders and depositors at 31st December 2001 amounted to £434.3m, 5.4% higher than 2000. Gross receipts from members totalled £249.1m, 26% up on the previous year and a record for the Group. 
 
 
Our very satisfactory net inflow of monies from existing and new members enabled our recourse to deposit funding to remain substantially below the industry norm. Our requirements for monies from non-members represented 13.6% of our total funds at the year end. 
 
Profits 
 and Capital
 As a mutual institution we are not driven by the desire to maximise short-term profits. Instead, we seek to optimise the balance between growth, capital strength and profit sufficiency to support our service, operational and financial obligations so that our progress and development are sustained over the long term. Consequently, it is not necessary for a mutual institution to increase operating, pre tax and net profits year on year. Rather, we budget and plan to achieve a level of profitability which is sufficient to sustain our solvency requirements as the Group’s balance sheet grows, and which generates an adequate surplus to fund service, product and operational improvements. 
 
Nationally "average" house prices rose substantially faster than within our core operating area. Whilst some areas and house types were in demand, generally house price inflation and consumer confidence did not match more buoyant conditions experienced elsewhere. The background of a lower interest environment reduced the Group’s cost of funds and in consequence we strove to stimulate the local and regional demand for housing finance by keeping the cost of borrowing below the "average" rate for mortgage lenders. Demand for our mortgage products was particularly strong during the second half of the year. Notwithstanding the effect that lower interest rates had on interest receivable from our growing portfolio of commercial and liquid assets, improved contributions from other activities enabled gross revenues (including fees, commissions and other operating income) to grow 1.5% to £28.2m. Total income (i.e. net interest receivable, fees, commissions and other operating income) was £9.5m, 4.2% higher than 2000. Our continued investments in infrastructure and connected activities, most notably the additions to our network of cash machines, systems enhancements, the start-up costs associated with our estate agencies and additional contributions to the retirement and death benefit scheme saw operating costs increase 8% as budgeted. Consequently operating profit of £3.1m was £0.1m lower than the previous year. Following a prudent provision for bad and doubtful debts, pre-tax profit fell by £0.3m to £2.9m and after tax, £2.0m was added to reserves. 
 
 
Our gross capital (general reserve) now stands at £32.8m and free capital (gross capital plus general provisions for bad and doubtful debts less tangible fixed assets) at £27.7m. These figures represent 7.6% and 6.4% respectively of total shares and other borrowings, which together with our solvency ratio of 15.2% of risk weighted assets ensure that the Group remains very well capitalised to develop our services and operations for the permanent benefit of existing and future members. 
 
Charitable 
 and Political Donations
 Support of the communities which we serve is fundamental to the ethos of the Group. 
108 worthy causes benefited from cash contributions, giving in kind, sponsorship, advertising, advice and the use of branches as sales and collection points. It is difficult to quantify the financial benefit of our assistance to the variety of local projects which we supported, but additionally, charitable donations for the year amounted to £12,390.
 
 
No contributions were made 
 for political purposes.
Staff
 The Group encourages and supports staff at all levels, providing for technical and professional education and development. Group objectives and performance are communicated regularly, individual contributions are assessed twice yearly and there is a structured consultation process. We place great emphasis on the involvement of staff at all levels in a continuous improvement programme to develop our employees’ competencies, so that we can enhance the high standards of service that we offer to members. We maintained our accreditation as an Investor In People throughout the year, and missed narrowly a National Training Award.
 
The Directors provide a working environment which encourages equal access to training, promotion and career development among all employees. Full and fair consideration is afforded to applications for employment from disabled persons. If employees become disabled they are encouraged to continue their employment, and arrangements made for training and redeployment as appropriate so that employability is not impaired by virtue of an employee’s disablement.
 
The Directors are very appreciative of the enthusiasm and dedication of all staff who have responded so well to the challenges which they faced during the year.
 
 
	 
 
	
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' STATEMENT
 
 CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Independent Auditors' Statement to the Members and Depositors of Darlington Building Society
 We have examined the Summary Financial Statement of Darlington Building Society.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
 The Summary Financial Statement is the responsibility of the Directors. Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on its consistency with the full Annual Accounts, Annual Business Statement and Directors' Report and its conformity with the requirements of Section 76 of the Building Societies Act 1986 and regulations made under it. We also read the other information contained in the "Business Review of 2001 including the Summary Financial Statement" and consider the implications for our report if we became aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of Opinion
 We performed our work in accordance with the Bulletin 1999/6,"The Auditors' Statement on the Summary Financial Statement" issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion
 In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full Annual Accounts, Annual Business Statement and Directors' Report of Darlington Building Society Group for the year ended 31st December 2001 and conforms with the requirements of Section 76 of the Building Societies Act 1986 and regulations made under it.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers
 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
	Newcastle upon Tyne, 6th February 2002
Notes:
- The maintenance and integrity of the Darlington Building Society website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
- Legislation in the United Kingdom governing preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
