
Bank of Scotland - The Mortgage Business
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
Home > Terms & Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
Terms & Conditions
 
 
 Terms and conditions
 of use and access of TMB's Internet Website
 
 The use and access of pages of the Internet
 Website of TMB ("TMB's Internet Website")
 is subject to the terms and conditions set out
 below. Please take a moment to read these terms
 and conditions carefully. By using or accessing
 any of TMB's Internet Website, you agree to
 be bound by the following terms and conditions.
 
 
Copyright
 The copyright and material on TMB's Internet
 Website is owned by TMB and protected by the
 copyright laws of the United Kingdom. The material
 on TMB's Internet Website may only be used by
 those who access it from the United Kingdom
 and such users will be entitled to copy any
 such information for their own personal use
 but may not republish, redistribute, store or
 reproduce any such information in any manner,
 including without limitation electronic reproduction
 by "uploading" or "downloading"
 or "framing" for any other purpose
 whatsoever, without the prior written consent
 of TMB. Any unauthorised downloading, retransmission,
 or other copying or modification of any of the
 contents of TMB's Internet Website may be in
 breach of statutory or common law rights which
 could be the subject of legal action. TMB shall
 have no liability resulting from any unauthorised
 reproduction or use of the information on TMB's
 Internet Website. All rights not expressly granted
 herein are reserved by TMB. 
 
Trade Marks 
 The rights (whether registered or unregistered)
 are reserved in and to all logos and word marks,
 other names, words, titles, phrases, logos,
 icons, graphics or designs to the pages of TMB's
 Internet Website used on TMB's Internet Website
 which are owned by Bank of Scotland , including,
 but without limitation, the logo for and words
 "The Mortgage Business" are trade
 marks or trade names of Bank of Scotland whose
 rights are pending. Certain names, words, titles,
 phrases, logos, icons, graphics or designs to
 the pages of TMB's Internet Website may constitute
 trade names or unregistered trade marks of TMB[
 or the Bank of Scotland]. The display of any
 of the above trade names or trade marks on pages
 of TMB's Internet Website does not imply that
 any licence has been granted to any third party
 in respect of the same. All other product or
 company names and devices, logos, icons, graphics
 or designs referred to on the pages of TMB's
 Internet Website are the trade marks of their
 respective owners and are exhibited only in
 such a manner as is intended to be for the benefit
 of such trade mark owners and TMB intends no
 infringement of such trade marks. The appearance
 or absence of products, services, companies,
 organisations, home pages or other Websites
 on TMB's Internet Website does not imply any
 endorsement or non-endorsement thereof by TMB.
 All rights not expressly granted herein are
 reserved by TMB. 
 
Liability for damages
 TMB shall not be liable for any direct or indirect,
 special, incidental or consequential damages,
 including the loss of profits (including, but
 not limited to foreseeable or direct loss of
 profit, which arise as a natural consequence
 from the event or omission giving rise to such
 claim), business revenue or goodwill arising
 from the use or access of or inability to use
 or access, interruption or availability of TMB's
 Internet Website, its operation or transmission,
 computer viruses, loss of or corruption to data
 or otherwise in respect of its use or the downloading
 or use of any software made available by TMB
 on TMB's Internet Website and TMB shall not
 be liable for and the user shall indemnify and
 keep indemnified on demand TMB from and against
 all claims, expenses, losses or liabilities
 (including professional fees and expenses) in
 connection with any claim by a third party relating
 to the use or downloading of the software or
 data or arising from such use or downloading.
 Any exclusions or limitations or restrictions
 of liability contained in these terms and conditions
 of use and access of TMB's Internet Website
 shall be subject to the qualification that nothing
 contained in any such exclusion or limitations
 or restrictions of liability shall operate to
 exclude or restrict any duty or liability of
 the TMB to any person which it has under the
 Financial Services Act 1986 (as the same may
 be amended from time to time) (the "Act")
 or under the rules of any relevant self-regulating
 organisation (as the term is defined in the
 Act) (whether or not laid down by the self-regulating
 organisation itself), as altered, amended, added
 to or cancelled from time to time, which such
 organisation has power to enforce and to which
 the TMB is subject by virtue of its membership
 of the relevant self-regulating organisation.
 
 
Warranties
 No warranty is given as to the accuracy
 or completeness of the content, the software,
 information, materials and functions (including
 without limitation, text, links and graphics)
 contained in TMB's Internet Website including,
 without limitation, text, graphics, links or
 other items. All of this information is are
 provided on an "as is" basis and excludes
 any warranty, representation, undertaking or
 condition whatsoever, express or implied, to
 the fullest extent permitted by law including
 but not limited to conditions or warranties
 of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular
 purpose, accuracy, completeness, freedom from
 computer viruses or non-infringement of third
 party rights. TMB excludes any liability for
 any errors in or omissions from information,
 materials and functions included in TMB's Internet
 Website or any third party websites linked to
 or from TMB's Internet Website. 
 
Jurisdiction
 The TMB Internet Website is intended to be accessed
 only by persons located in the United Kingdom
 and TMB makes no representation that any information,
 materials or functions included in TMB's Internet
 Website are appropriate for use in any other
 jurisdiction. In addition the products, information
 and services advertised on TMB's Internet Website
 may not be available to persons resident outside
 the UK and TMB is not obliged to provide the
 products, information or services to such persons
 and reserves the right not to do so. 
 
Security of personal
 data
 TMB is concerned about the security of your
 personal information when using TMB's Internet
 Website. We have created this security statement
 to explain our information gathering and dissemination
 practices for TMB's Internet Website.
 
All personal data collected
 by TMB from TMB's Internet Website is intended
 to enable the processing of your request for
 information by TMB. By submitting information
 though TMB's Internet Website you are consenting
 to such use. 
 
As the Internet is not
 a secure medium of communication, TMB cannot
 guarantee the security of any information you
 input onto TMB's Internet Website or send to
 us over the Internet. TMB is not, and will not
 be, responsible for any damages you or others
 may suffer as a result of the loss or breach
 of confidentiality of any such information.
 
 
TMB does not transmit
 'cookies' or other data from TMB's Internet
 Website to your computer. 
 
Links to other websites
 The provision by TMB of a link to a third party
 website does not constitute any authorisation
 by TMB to the user to access material held at
 that location, nor is it evidence of any endorsement
 by TMB of the material held there. TMB accepts
 no responsibility or liability for the privacy
 of your personal information on such websites,
 as these are beyond our control. TMB will accept
 no responsibility or liability in respect of
 any information, materials or functions (including
 without limitation, text, links and graphics)
 on any third party website linked to or from
 TMB's Internet Website or in respect of third
 party information made available on the TMB
 Internet Website. 
 
Accessing / using
 TMB's Internet Website
 TMB's Internet Website is designed to be accessed
 via its principal homepages, and not directly
 to individual pages. If you access individual
 pages directly, you may not see important information
 and warnings which are relevant toour products
 and services and TMB generally. As you use TMB's
 Internet Website, you will find words in the
 text which are a different colour from the normal
 text and are underlined. These are links or
 shortcuts to other pages and if you click on
 them they will take you to those pages. A number
 of these links refer you to important legal
 or regulatory information which should be read
 in conjunction with the text in which the link
 appears. TMB accepts no responsibility or liability
 for improper use of TMB's Internet Website.
 Unless the contrary is explicitly stated in
 the case of any product or service, TMB's Internet
 Website contains only a summary of the information
 relating to the products and services referred
 to on TMB's Internet Website. Therefore, if
 you are interested in finding out all of the
 information in relation to any of the products
 or services, you should seek further information
 from TMB by any of the methods indicated on
 the pages describing the products and services.
 
Nothing on TMB's Internet
 Website is intended to constitute advice to
 you. 
 
TMB's Internet Website
 Feedback Facility
 TMB's Internet Website has been extensively
 tested and we hope that it works properly at
 all times. However, if you experience a problem
 at any time, please return to the homepage from
 where you entered TMB's Internet Website and
 try again. It would be very helpful if you could
 report any problems to us by sending an email
 via the Website feedback facility. 
 
Enforceability
 In the event any provision of these terms and
 conditions of use and access of TMB's Internet
 Website is held unenforceable, it will not affect
 the validity and enforceability of the remaining
 provisions and will be replaced by an enforceable
 provision, the meaning of which comes closest
 to the intention underlying the unenforceable
 provision. 
 
Reliability of information
 Information and content provided on TMB's Internet
 Website is believed to be correct at the time
 of posting on TMB's Internet Website. However,
 TMB cannot guarantee that information and content
 will be accurate, complete and current at all
 times. All information on TMB's Internet Website
 is subject to modification from time to time
 without notice. It is your responsibility to
 check the accuracy and completeness of the information
 and content before relying on it in any way.
 Your use of the information content (for any
 reason) is at your sole risk. It would be very
 helpful if you could report to us any concerns
 you have regarding any information or content
 on TMB's Internet Website by sending an email
 via the Website feedback facility referred to
 above. 
 
Changes to these Terms
 and Conditions and TMB's Internet Website
 TMB may modify these terms and conditions and/or
 any of the content of TMB's Internet Website
 from time to time and accordingly you are advised
 to keep up-to-date with the changes by regularly
 revisiting and refreshing any cached copy of
 TMB's Internet Website and these terms and conditions.
 
Governing laws
 The terms and conditions of use and access of
 TMB's Internet Website shall be governed by
 and construed in accordance with the laws of
 England and the parties hereby submit to the
 exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
 
 
Registered Office
 The Mortgage Business Public Limited Company,
 Thistle House, City Road, Chester, CH88 3AN
 
 
 
 
Important
 please read the Legal
 and Regulatory statements which you must
 read in conjunction with the relevant product
 and service information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ref: tmblegalregsdirect, Version 1.00, Revised 01/05/2002 SVR effective from 12/12/2001. Bank of Scotland base rate change effective from 08/11/2001 
