
 
NPBS | Banking | Internet Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home 
 
| Banking 
| Business 
Services | Insurance 
| Mortgages 
| Online 
| 
Personal 
Loans | Savings 
| Share 
Dealing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NetmasterGold 
 Conditions 
 
 
Please 
 read these conditions carefully. You may want to 
 print off a copy for future reference. The NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions below apply to use of the NetmasterGold 
 service. Conditions also apply to each account that 
 you operate using the NetmasterGold service. These 
 can be found in the relevant areas of this website 
 for NetmasterGold branded accounts or, for Norwich 
 and Peterborough branded products, in the relevant 
 account brochure or on the Society's website. For 
 your convenience a copy of Norwich and Peterborough's 
 general 
 conditions 
 for savings and investments appears on this website.
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
These 
 definitions apply to the NetmasterGold General Conditions 
 and to the separate NetmasterGold account conditions: 
 
 
 
- 
 "access password" means the NetmasterGold access 
 password used by you to access your Internet enabled 
 account(s) via the service 
 
- "Account 
 holder" (or "you") means the person(s) in whose 
 name(s) an Internet enabled account is held; 
 
- agreement" 
 means the agreement between us and you relating 
 to an account and includes all of the conditions 
 relating to that account; 
 
- 
 "card" means a card issued for use with an account; 
 
 
- 
 "cheque book" means a cheque book issued by us 
 to you for use in connection with an account; 
 
 
- 
 "EFTPOS terminal" means any system used to accept 
 transactions made by a Switch or other debit card; 
 
 
- "Internet 
 enabled account" means your any Society 
 account you can access via the service;
 
- 
 "PIN" means the Personal Identification Number 
 issued to you (or any authorised cardholder) for 
 use with the card; 
 
- "Rules" 
 means the Rules of the Society as amended or replaced 
 from time to time; 
 
- 
 "service" means the NetmasterGold service which 
 is accessed via the Internet (www.netmastergold.co.uk); 
 
 
- 
 "Society" (or "we" or any related expression) 
 means Norwich and Peterborough Building Society 
 of Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough 
 PE2 6WZ; 
 
- 
 "telephone password" means the password agreed 
 between you and us to enable us to provide you 
 with certain services in relation to your Internet 
 enabled account(s) over the telephone. 
 
 
NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions
 
 
In the event of any conflict 
 between any of these NetmasterGold General Conditions 
 and any conditions relating to any Internet 
 enabled account operated using the 
 service, the NetmasterGold condition will apply 
 where the service is used
 
 
Use 
 of the service 
 
 
1. 
 The service may only be used by persons aged 18 
 years or over. 
 
 2. You may only use the service if you hold a 
 Society account that is an Internet 
 enabled account. 
 
 3. You may only use the service once we have accepted 
 your application to use it. 
 
 4. It is your responsibility to ensure that your 
 computer hardware and software meet the minimum 
 requirements for the service.
 
 5. It is your responsibility to ensure that each 
 computer that you use to access the service is 
 free from malicious programmes (viruses) by regularly 
 running up to date anti-virus software. You must 
 not access the service from a computer to which 
 third parties have access (for 
 example, at work, in a library or Internet cafe 
 etc.).
 
 6. You will require an Internet connection to 
 use the service. Your Internet Service Provider 
 may charge for this. You may also incur telephone 
 call charges whilst using the service depending 
 on the terms of your agreement with your Internet 
 Service Provider.
 
 7. Access to the service will be withdrawn immediately 
 if you close or if we close any of your Internet 
 enabled accounts. 
 
 8. It may be an offence to import or use the encryption 
 technology used in the service in some countries. 
 As the service uses sophisticated cryptography 
 to ensure the safe transit of data across the 
 Internet, you should check with the appropriate 
 authority before using the service outside of 
 the United Kingdom. 
 
 9. We cannot guarantee continuous, uninterrupted 
 service. On occasions we may need to interrupt 
 the service to carry out maintenance of it, for 
 other operational reasons or for reasons beyond 
 our control. We will not, therefore, be liable 
 to you for a failure to provide a continuous, 
 uninterrupted service.
 
 
Payments 
 and transfers
 
 
 
 10. 
 Standing orders may not be backdated or brought 
 forward to be paid on the day of access via the 
 service or amended on the day which payment is 
 due to be made. 
 
 11. It is your responsibility to ensure that any 
 amendments to standing order or direct debit instructions 
 are correct. 
 
 12. Payments using the payment facility cannot 
 be made on the day of access via the service or 
 amended on the day when payment is due to be made. 
 
 
 13. Money may only be transferred to and from 
 Internet 
 enabled accounts. Transfers made 
 between Internet 
 enabled accounts are immediate (i.e. 
 they cannot be forward or backdated). 
 
 14. An upper transaction limit of £10,000 applies 
 to all payment and standing order functions.
 
 15. A £10,000 per day transaction limit 
 applies to all payments.
 
 
 
 Joint 
 accounts
 
 
 
 16. 
 If an Internet 
 enabled account is a joint account, 
 we will (subject to 17 below) accept instructions 
 from any one of you via the service, provided 
 that a valid access password is used. Any one 
 of you may instruct us in writing, at any time, 
 that we should only accept the authority of all 
 account holders in relation to the operation of 
 an Internet 
 enabled account which is a joint 
 account (in which case the service will cease 
 to be available in respect of that Internet 
 enabled account). 
 
 17. If an Internet 
 enabled account has been set up 
 with us so that the signature of more than one 
 Account holder is required to operate it, payments 
 cannot be set up from that Internet 
 enabled account using the service. 
 A mandate signed by all signatories would be required 
 for us to set up such payments. 
 
 18. Each of you will have your own individual 
 access password to access the service. 
 
 
Cancelling 
 instructions
 
 
19. 
 Once we have accepted an instruction to make a 
 payment, you may only cancel it if we have not 
 already acted upon it, or if we are able to cancel 
 the action which we have taken. If we accept your 
 instructions to cancel a payment, we may make 
 a charge for this.
 
 
Passwords 
 and unauthorised transactions 
 
 
 
 20. You must keep your access password and selected 
 personal information secret at all times and not 
 permit either to become known to any other person 
 (including Society staff), intentionally or otherwise. 
 
 
 21. You must memorise your access password and 
 not keep a record of it (even in disguised form). 
 
 
 22. You must immediately change your access password 
 on the first occasion when you first use the service. 
 The new access password you select must be exactly 
 10 characters in length. 
 
 23. You must notify us as soon as possible if 
 your access password becomes known to, or if you 
 think it may be known by, anyone else. A telephone 
 service is available for this purpose on 0845 
 300 2808, 8am to 8pm Monday to Friday and 9am 
 to 5pm Saturdays. An answerphone is available 
 outside these times. 
 
 24. When contacting the NetmasterGold Helpline 
 you will need to quote your telephone password 
 as previously advised to us, this should be kept 
 secret and only disclosed to Helpline staff. It 
 is not the same as the access password used to 
 access your account(s) via the service. 
 
 25. If your access password is used without your 
 consent, you will not be liable for any unauthorised 
 transactions which take place after you have notified 
 us under condition 23, and providing you have 
 complied with your other obligations set out in 
 conditions 20 to 24. If someone carries out any 
 unauthorised transactions before you notify us 
 under condition 23, the most you will have to 
 pay is £50. However, if your access password 
 is used with your permission, or because of your 
 gross negligence, or because you have acted dishonestly, 
 you will be liable for all the unauthorised transactions. 
 
 
 
Charges
 
 
26. 
 You will be liable for the cost of any proceedings, 
 costs, claims, actions, demands, losses or liabilities 
 incurred by us arising out of your failure to 
 comply with these conditions or, where applicable, 
 the Rules.
 
 27. The Society will not be responsible for any 
 costs incurred by you from any Internet Service 
 Provider or for the cost of any telephone calls 
 whilst using the service. 
 
 
Variations 
 
 
 
28. 
 We may vary these conditions by giving you at 
 least 30 days' notice. We will only do so: 
 
 
- to 
 reflect market conditions, general banking or 
 building society practice; or 
 
- where 
 we consider this to be fairer; or 
 
- to 
 take account of any change in the law, regulation, 
 code of practice, decision or announcement affecting 
 our business, or the service or the account 
 or any change of working practice, technology 
 or procedure; or 
 
- where 
 we consider that there is an appropriate commercial 
 reason to do so.
 
 29. 
 When we change the conditions relating to the service 
 we will notify you about the changes at least 30 
 days' before we make the change by either letter 
 or email. The notice will tell you when the change 
 will take effect. Any accidental failure on our 
 part to notify you of a change will not invalidate 
 the change itself. 
 
Termination 
 
 
 
30. 
 You may withdraw from the service at any time 
 by written notice given to the Society at its 
 principal office, Peterborough Business Park, 
 Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6WZ. You will, of 
 course, be liable for all charges and fees relating 
 to the service up to and including the date of 
 withdrawal.
 
 31. We may terminate your access to the service 
 by giving notice to you. We may also terminate 
 your access to the service, without giving notice 
 to you, if we have a valid reason for doing so 
 (and we will advise you of that reason). 
 
 
 
 Jurisdiction
 
 
 
 32. 
 These conditions shall be governed and construed 
 in accordance with English law. You agree to submit 
 exclusively to the jurisdiction of the courts 
 of England and Wales in relation to the determination 
 of any issue relating to or arising out of these 
 conditions or your use of the service.
 
 
 
 Service 
 improvements
 
 
 
 33. 
 We are constantly working to improve customer 
 service and to enhance our range of products. 
 We therefore reserve the right to develop and 
 enhance the NetmasterGold service. 
 
 
 
NetmasterGold 
 current account conditions (closed issue account)
 
These 
 conditions relate to the use of your NetmasterGold 
 current account (the "NmG current account") 
 and should be read together with the NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions. 
 
Your 
 card can be used as a cheque guarantee card, as 
 a LINK card to withdraw cash from a LINK money machine 
 and as a Switch card for use in an Electronic Funds 
 Transfer at Point of Sale (EFTPOS) terminal to acquire 
 goods, services or cash. We may also permit it to 
 be used to obtain other services that we may provide 
 from time to time. 
 
About 
 your NmG current account 
 
 
Your 
 NmG current account is not a share account and, 
 therefore, you will not become a member of the Society 
 on opening your NmG current account and will not 
 have any associated rights. 
 
Use 
 of the NmG current account
 
 
1. 
 You agree to be bound by the Rules (a copy of 
 which is available on request) in so far as they 
 are applicable to depositors (see section "About 
 your NmG current account" above) and by the NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions.
 
 2. The NmG current account is only available to 
 persons aged 18 or over. 
 
 3. The NmG current account may not be used for 
 commercial or business purposes and we accept 
 no liability in respect of a NmG current account 
 used for such purposes. 
 
 
Payments 
 and Withdrawals
 
 
 
 4. You may withdraw up 
 to £500 cash each day provided that you do not 
 draw in excess of the cleared credit balance on 
 the NmG 
 current account 
 and the approved overdraft limit. 
 
 5. You must allow four full working days, after 
 the day you have paid a cheque into your account 
 (i.e. not including Saturdays, Sundays or public 
 holidays) before drawing against it. We may alter 
 this period from time to time by notice to you. 
 You should note that, on occasions, cheques may 
 be returned unpaid beyond this period.
 
 6. We will debit the NmG 
 current account 
 with: 
 
 
- 
 withdrawals from the NmG 
 current account 
 and payments made out of the NmG 
 current account 
 through cheques, use of the card at cash dispensers, 
 EFTPOS terminals and other devices or elsewhere; 
 
 
- 
 transactions in the NmG 
 current account 
 authorised by you or by any joint account holder; 
 
 
- 
 the amount of any cheque paid into the NmG 
 current account, 
 which is not subsequently cleared, with effect 
 from the date the cheque was received; 
 
- 
 any charges, fees or interest due to us in respect 
 of the NmG 
 current account 
 in accordance with our scale of charges in force 
 from time to time (a copy of which is available 
 on our website); 
 
- 
 the costs of recovering or attempting to recover 
 monies owing by you to us if a debit balance 
 on the NmG 
 current account 
 remains outstanding for seven days after a request 
 from us to you to bring the NmG 
 current account 
 into credit or within an agreed overdraft limit.
 
 
7. 
 We will not be liable if a retailer, supplier 
 or bank refuses to accept use of the card. If 
 a retailer or supplier agrees to make a refund, 
 we will credit the NmG 
 current account 
 with the amount when we receive the refund. We 
 will not be liable for any delay in receiving 
 the refund.
 
 8. A request for authorisation of an EFTPOS transaction 
 will not be granted if the card has been notified 
 as lost or stolen or if we become aware that you 
 have drawn more on the NmG 
 current account 
 than you are permitted.
 
 9. We may refuse to make a payment on a cheque, 
 direct debit, standing order or EFTPOS transaction 
 unless you have sufficient cleared funds in your 
 NmG 
 current account, or a sufficient approved 
 overdraft facility, at 5.00pm on the weekday (i.e. 
 any day other than a Saturday, Sunday and public 
 holiday) before the day the payment is due.
 
 
Interest 
 
 
 
10. 
 Interest on any credit balance is calculated on 
 a daily basis and credited to the NmG current 
 account monthly. Money received into the NmG current 
 account by Bankers' Automated Credit will earn 
 interest from the day of receipt by us. Money 
 received into the NmG current account by a transfer 
 from another Internet enabled account using the 
 service will also earn interest from the day of 
 receipt into the NmG current account. Cheques 
 paid into the NmG current account will earn interest 
 from the third day following the day of their 
 receipt by us. Money will earn interest up to, 
 but excluding, the day of withdrawal or transfer 
 to another Internet enabled account using the 
 service.
 
 
Overdraft 
 facility 
 
 
11. 
 If you are granted an overdraft facility you will 
 be entitled to use it, up to the limit we agree 
 with you, on the terms, at the rate of interest 
 and monthly overdraft usage fee (if any) as we 
 may notify to you from time to time. Interest 
 is calculated on a daily basis and debited to 
 the NmG 
 current account 
 monthly. We will notify you in advance of the 
 amount of interest and other charges to be debited 
 to the NmG 
 current account. 
 
 
 12. If you draw in excess of the approved overdraft 
 facility, we may debit the NmG 
 current account 
 with any charges 
 due (including an unauthorised overdraft charge) 
 in accordance with our scale of charges in force 
 from time to time. 
 
 13. 
 
 
- We 
 may at any time by notice to you require the 
 amount of any debit balance on the NmG 
 current account 
 to be repaid immediately in full or in part. 
 
 
- 
 We may at any time cancel or amend any overdraft 
 facility by notice to you. 
 
 
 
14. 
 We may from time to time by written notice to 
 you set the whole or part of any credit or debit 
 balance in the NmG 
 current account: 
 
 
 
- 
 against any credit or debit balance in any other 
 account or accounts held in your name with us; 
 or 
 
- against 
 the outstanding debit balance of any other loan 
 or loans you may have with us (whether or not 
 secured).
 
 
 
Joint 
 Accounts 
 
 
15. 
 If the NmG current account is a joint account 
 we will accept the instructions of any one of 
 the account holders for all withdrawals and for 
 any other purpose in connection with the NmG current 
 account.
 
 16. All agreements, indemnities, obligations, 
 liabilities and authorities given by one or more 
 of the joint account holders shall be assumed 
 to be joint and several. In other words, each 
 of you will be fully liable in respect of the 
 NmG current account, together and individually. 
 
 
 
Cheques 
 
 
 
17. 
 When using the card as a cheque guarantee card 
 you must: 
 
 
- use 
 only cheques taken from the cheque book; 
 
- sign 
 and date the cheque in the presence of the payee; 
 
 
- ensure 
 that the payee writes the card number on the 
 reverse of the cheque; 
 
- not 
 draw a cheque for more than £100, nor issue 
 more than one cheque in respect of any one transaction 
 or to the same payee at the same time or on 
 the same day; 
 
- not 
 issue a cheque in excess of the cleared funds 
 and the agreed overdraft limit; 
 
- not 
 stop payment of the cheque; 
 
- not 
 use this facility outside the British Isles 
 or after the expiry date of the card; and 
 
- accept 
 that we may debit the amount of any cheque, 
 whether guaranteed or not, to the NmG 
 current account 
 without reference to you (even if the cheque 
 bears any irregularity) and you will be liable 
 for the payment of any debit balance so created, 
 together with interest and other charges.
 
 
 
 18. We may refuse to pay any cheque without incurring 
 any liability to you or to any third party, whether 
 or not there is sufficient money in the account 
 or a sufficient approved overdraft facility to 
 meet the cheque. We will only refuse to pay a 
 cheque where there is sufficient money in the 
 account or a sufficient approved overdraft facility 
 to meet the cheque where there is a proper reason 
 for doing so, for example, because the cheque 
 has not been written out correctly or where there 
 is a court order that requires us to freeze the 
 account. 
 
 
 
 Cards 
 
 
 
 
 
 19. 
 The card may only be used by the account holder 
 to whom it was issued and whose name is shown 
 on the card. You must sign the card immediately 
 on receipt and keep it secure at all times and 
 separate from your cheque book. 
 
 20. We will accept responsibility for faults which 
 occur in cash machines that are owned by us or 
 systems belonging to us which cause you to suffer 
 a loss, unless the fault was obvious or notified 
 by a message or notice on display. We will not 
 be responsible for any consequential loss suffered 
 by you or by any third party. 
 
 21. We may issue a further card to you from time 
 to time unless you notify us in writing that you 
 do not wish us to do so.
 
 22. The card and the cheque book remain our property 
 and must be returned to us on demand or on closure 
 of the NmG current account. We may refuse to issue 
 or reissue a cheque book or a card (without giving 
 a reason) but will only usually do so if you are 
 in breach of these conditions. 
 
 
PINs 
 and passwords 
 
 
 
 23. 
 You must keep the PIN, your passwords and selected 
 personal information secret at all times and not 
 permit them to become known to any other person, 
 intentionally or otherwise. 
 
 24. You must memorise the PIN and your passwords 
 and not keep a record of them (even in disguised 
 form). You must immediately destroy the notification 
 of the PIN which we send you. You can ask not 
 to be issued with a PIN.
 
 25. The PIN can be changed at LINK money machines 
 owned by us and those of some other institutions. 
 You must inform us, as soon as you can, and change 
 the PIN and/or passwords if you believe that anyone 
 else knows them.
 
 26. Our staff will never ask you to disclose your 
 access password or PIN. Do not disclose your access 
 password or PIN to anyone else even if they ask 
 you for it.
 
 
 
 Charges 
 and expenses 
 
 
27. 
 You will be liable for the cost of any proceedings, 
 costs, claims, demands, losses or liabilities 
 incurred by us arising out of: 
 
 
- 
 stopping payment of a cheque at your request; 
 or 
 
- 
 your failure to comply with these conditions 
 or the rules (so far as they are applicable 
 in the circumstances). 
 
 
 
Variations
 
 
28. 
 We may vary these conditions from time to time. 
 We will only do so: 
 
 
- to 
 reflect market conditions, general banking or 
 building society practice; or 
 
- where 
 we consider this to be fairer; or 
 
- to 
 take account of any change in the law, regulation, 
 code of practice, decision or announcement affecting 
 our business or the account or any change of 
 working practice, technology or procedure; or 
 
 
- where 
 we consider that there is appropriate commercial 
 reason to do so.
 
 
29. 
 When we change any condition , we will notify 
 you about the changes at least 30 days' before 
 we make the change by either letter or email.
 
 30. We may vary the interest rates applying to 
 the NmG 
 current account 
 or introduce new rates of charge by notice to 
 you. We may do so for one or more of the following 
 reasons; 
 
 
- if 
 it is reasonable to do so in order to reflect 
 a change or changes which have occurred, or 
 which we reasonably expect to occur, in interest 
 rates or charging methods generally or in the 
 banking services sector; 
 
- 
 to preserve, increase or reduce margins between 
 interest rates paid to our customers or the 
 providers of funds to us, and interest rates 
 charged to borrowers from us, in the interests 
 of our business as a whole; 
 
- 
 if we consider it necessary for the prudent 
 or efficient operation of our business; 
 
- 
 because of any change in the cost of administering 
 current accounts; 
 
- 
 to reflect a decision or recommendation made 
 by a court, regulatory body or Ombudsman (including 
 the Building Societies Ombudsman) or any other 
 official body or as a result of any change (or 
 anticipated change) in the law; 
 
- by 
 agreement with you. 
 
 
31. 
 When we change the interest rates applying to 
 the NmG 
 current account, 
 we will tell you about the changes within 30 days 
 by letter or e-mail. We will state clearly the 
 previous and new interest rates. We will also 
 have the previous and new rates for the NmG 
 current account 
 available on our telephone helplines and our Internet 
 site. 
 
 32. When we change any charges in relation 
 to the NmG current account, we will notify you 
 by either letter or email at least 30 days before 
 the new charge takes effect. 
 
 
Statements 
 
 
 
 
 33. 
 When you have made transactions on the NmG current 
 account during a month we will send you a statement 
 of account each month. You may also ask us to 
 send you statements on a more frequent basis although 
 we may charge for this service. You should notify 
 us immediately if any statement includes an item 
 which appears to be incorrect. 
 
 
Closure 
 
 
 
34. 
 You may close the NmG current account at any time 
 by written notice to us at our principal Office 
 at Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6WZ England, provided 
 that you return the card and all unused cheques 
 and pay to us the amount of any debit balance 
 on the NmG current account. You must then also 
 pay to us any other amounts due to us in respect 
 of the NmG current account, whether arising on 
 or after the date of termination. 
 
 35. We may close the NmG current account and end 
 this agreement by giving you at least 30 days' 
 notice. We may also close the NmG current account 
 and/or refuse to accept any further monies without 
 giving notice to you if there are exceptional 
 circumstances, for example, fraud. We will always 
 tell you why we are closing or have closed the 
 NmG current account. If we close the NmG current 
 account we will pay to you the amount of any credit 
 balance on the NmG current account (after deduction 
 of any charges or other sums due to us). If you 
 cannot be traced after reasonable enquiry, the 
 account may be closed and the balance held in 
 a suspense account for such period as we may deem 
 fit, after which it may be forfeited to us (provided 
 that we may repay the balance in the event that 
 a valid claim is received). 
 
 
Lost 
 or stolen 
 
 
36. 
 You must notify us as soon as possible if the 
 cheque book or the card is lost or stolen or liable 
 to misuse or if the PIN, passwords or selected 
 personal information becomes known to anyone else. 
 A 24-hour telephone service is available for this 
 purpose on Peterborough (01733) 372374. 
 
 37. We will accept and act on notice of loss received 
 from a recognised card notification organisation, 
 e.g. Sentinel Card Services. 
 
 38. If notice of loss of the cheque book or card 
 is given orally, you must confirm it in writing 
 within seven days to our principal office at Peterborough 
 Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6WZ. 
 
 
 39. We will not provide a replacement cheque book 
 or card until we have received written notice 
 of the loss from you or a card notification organisation. 
 
 
 40. If the card has been used by someone who obtained 
 it without your consent, you will not be liable 
 for more than £50 (per card) unless you acted 
 with gross negligence or fraudulently. After we 
 have been effectively notified, you will not be 
 liable for any further use of the card other than 
 by you. If the card is used by someone else you 
 will be required to assist us, our agents and 
 the police in the investigation, to provide all 
 available information relating to the theft, loss 
 or misuse of the card and to take all reasonable 
 steps to recover the card. 
 
 
Transfer 
 of the account 
 
 
41. 
 You agree that we may transfer, or agree to transfer, 
 either some or all of our obligations in relation 
 to the NmG 
 current account 
 to any other person or body (the "transferee") 
 at any time providing the transfer does not serve 
 to reduce any guarantees given to you. If we transfer 
 any of our obligations under this condition, the 
 transferee will be able to enforce such obligations 
 against you in the same way that we could enforce 
 them before the transfer. If we transfer our obligations 
 under this condition, you will be able to enforce 
 such obligations against the transferee in the 
 same way that you could enforce them against us 
 before the transfer and we will be released from 
 any further liability to perform them.
 
 
Post-dated 
 cheques
 
 
42 
 You must not post-date a cheque. If you do, and 
 it is presented to us before the date you have 
 inserted, we may pay the cheque at the time it 
 is presented, or return it, as we choose and without 
 any liability to you.
 
 
 
NetmasterGold 
 saver conditions (superseded account from 8/10/2001)
 
These 
 are the specific conditions that relate to the NetmasterGold 
 saver account (the "NmG saver Account"). 
 They should be read together with the Society's 
 general 
 conditions 
 for savings and investments and the NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions. In the event of a difference 
 between any specific condition of the NmG saver 
 Account and any of the general conditions, the specific 
 condition will apply.
 
 
 About the NmG 
 saver Account 
 
The NmG 
 saver Account is a share account of the Society. 
 You will therefore become a shareholding member 
 of the Society (if you are not a shareholding member 
 already) when you open your NmG 
 saver Account. The Society operates a permanent 
 charitable assignment scheme.
 
 
1. You agree to be bound by 
 the rules as amended from time to time. 
 
 2. Your 
 NmG saver Account will be opened on the 
 date your application is accepted. No new applications 
 will be accepted after 8th October 2001 when NmG 
 saver Account will become a superseded account.
 
 3. The rate of interest payable on money invested 
 in the NmG 
 saver Account are variable (which means 
 that it may either go up or down) and may be varied 
 at any time in accordance with the General Conditions 
 for savings and investments.
 
 4. NmG 
 saver Account is only available to NetmasterGold 
 current account customers who are individuals 
 and the beneficial owner(s) of the money in the 
 account. The NmG 
 saver Account is only available to customers 
 who are registered and eligible to use the service.
 
 5. Should you withdraw from the service, or have 
 your access to the service terminated by us, we 
 will close your NmG 
 saver Account and pay the whole of the 
 balance in the NmG 
 saver Account together with the interest 
 on it at the rate or rates currently being paid 
 (less any charges or other sums due to us) to 
 you. 
 
 6. Should you close your NetmasterGold current 
 account or have such account closed by us, we 
 will close your NmG 
 saver Account and pay the whole of the 
 balance in the account together with the interest 
 on it at the rate or rates currently being paid 
 (less any charges or other sums due to us) to 
 you. 
 
 7. The NmG 
 saver Account must not be used for business 
 banking purposes. The overall limit for investment 
 in the NmG 
 saver Account is £10,000.
 
 8. You may only be linked to one NmG 
 saver Account. If this is a joint account 
 you may not hold an additional NmG 
 saver Account in your sole name. 
 
 9. Money may only be transferred to and from the 
 NmG 
 saver Account via the service and through 
 the NetmasterGold current account. Access to the 
 NmG 
 saver Account is not available through 
 branches of the Society, its Call Centre or by 
 post. 
 
 10. Interest earned on the NmG 
 saver Account will not be credited to any 
 other account (except in the event of closure). 
 
 
 
 
NetmasterGold 
 saver II conditions
 
These 
 are the specific conditions that relate to the NetmasterGold 
 saver II account (the "NmG saver II Account"). 
 They should be read together with the Society's 
 general 
 conditions 
 for savings and investments and the NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions. In the event of a difference 
 between any specific condition of the NmG saver 
 II Account and any of the general conditions, the 
 specific condition will apply.
 
 
 About the NmG 
 saver II Account
 
The 
 NmG saver II 
 Account is a share account of the Society. 
 You will therefore become a shareholding member 
 of the Society (if you are not a shareholding member 
 already) when you open your NmG 
 saver II Account. The Society operates a 
 permanent charitable assignment scheme.
 
 
The NmG 
 saver II 
 Account is a share account of the Society. 
 You will therefore become a shareholding member 
 of the Society (if you are not a shareholding 
 member already) when you open your NmG 
 saver II 
 Account. The Society operates a permanent 
 charitable assignment scheme.
 
 
1. You agree to be bound by 
 the Rules as amended from time to time. 
 
 2. Your 
 NmG saver II 
 Account will be opened on the date your 
 application is accepted.
 
 3. The rate of interest payable on money invested 
 in the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account are variable (which means that 
 it may either go up or down) and may be varied 
 at any time in accordance with the General Conditions 
 for savings and investments.
 
 4. The 
 NmG saver II 
 Account is only available to Society 
 customers who are individuals and who will be 
 the beneficial owner(s) of the money in the 
 NmG 
 saver II 
 Account. The NmG 
 saver II 
 Account is only available to customers 
 who are registered and eligible to use the service.
 
 5. Should you withdraw from the service, or 
 have your access to the service terminated by 
 us, we will close your NmG 
 saver II 
 Account and pay the whole of the balance 
 in the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account together with the interest on 
 it at the rate or rates currently being paid 
 (less any charges or other sums due to us) to 
 you. 
 
 6. Should you close your Society current account 
 or have such account closed by us, we will close 
 your NmG 
 saver II 
 Account and pay the whole of the balance 
 in the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account together with the interest on 
 it at the rate or rates currently being paid 
 (less any charges or other sums due to us) to 
 you. 
 
 7. The NmG 
 saver II 
 Account must not be used for business 
 banking purposes. The overall limit for investment 
 in the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account is £5,000. 
 
 8. You may only be linked to one NmG 
 saver II 
 Account. If this is a joint account you 
 may not hold an additional NmG 
 saver II 
 Account in your sole name. 
 
 9. Money may only be transferred to and from 
 the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account via the service and through your 
 Society current account (which must be an Internet 
 enabled account). Access to the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account is not available through branches 
 of the Society, its Call Centre or by post. 
 
 
 10. Interest earned on the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account will not be credited to any other 
 account (except in the event of closure). 
 
 11. Statements for the NmG 
 saver II 
 Account will only be provided on-line 
 using the service. You should check the transactions 
 on your NmG 
 saver II 
 Account frequently and let us know as 
 soon as you can if you have any queries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NetmasterGold 
 ISA specific conditions 
 
These 
 are the specific conditions that relate to the NetmasterGold 
 ISA Account (the "NmG ISA Account"). They should 
 be read together with the Society's general 
 conditions 
 for savings and investments and the NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions. In the event of a conflict between 
 any specific condition of the NmG ISA Account and 
 any of the general conditions, the specific condition 
 will apply. 
 
About 
 the NmG ISA Account
 
The NmG ISA 
 Account is a share account of the Society. You will 
 therefore become a shareholding member of the Society 
 (if you are not a shareholding member already) when 
 you open a NmG ISA Account. The Society operates 
 a permanent charitable assignment scheme.
 
 
 1. You agree to be bound by 
 the rules as amended from time to time. 
 
 2. The NmG ISA Account will be opened on the date 
 your first investment is made.
 
 3. The limit for investment in the NmG ISA Account 
 is £3,000 in the tax year 2002/2003. 
 
 4. The rate of interest payable on money invested 
 in the NmG ISA Account is variable (which means 
 that it may either go up or down) and may be varied 
 at any time in accordance with the General Conditions 
 for savings and investments.
 
 5. We reserve the right to close the NmG ISA Account 
 if the required minimum investment (currently 
 £1) is not maintained and in such circumstances 
 to return the balance to you. We will not close 
 the NmG ISA Account without giving you at least 
 30 days' notice. 
 
 6. The NmG ISA Account is only available to Society 
 customers who are individuals and who are registered 
 and eligible to use the service. You must also 
 be able to satisfy the declaration set out in 
 the application form for the NmG ISA Account. 
 
 
 7. Should you withdraw from the service, or have 
 your access to the service terminated by us, we 
 will give you 30 days' notice to close the NmG 
 ISA Account. You could transfer the investment 
 in the NmG ISA Account to another ISA manager 
 within the notice period and we will supply you 
 with an ISA transfer form for this purpose. If 
 you fail to transfer to another ISA manager within 
 the notice period, we will close the NmG ISA Account 
 and pay the balance together with any interest 
 due on it at the rate currently being paid (less 
 any charges or other sums due to us) in to your 
 current account with us (if you still have one 
 at that time). If you do not have a current account 
 with us at that time, we will send a cheque for 
 the same sum to you at the address we hold for 
 you in our records.
 
 8. Should you close your Society current account 
 or have such account closed by us, we will give 
 you 30 days' notice to close the NmG ISA Account. 
 You could transfer the investment in the NmG ISA 
 Account to another ISA manager within the notice 
 period and we will supply you with an ISA transfer 
 form for this purpose. If you fail to transfer 
 to another ISA manager within the notice period, 
 we will close the NmG ISA Account and send you 
 a cheque for the balance together with any interest 
 due on it at the rate currently being paid (less 
 any charges or other sums due to us). We will 
 send the cheque to the address we hold for you 
 in our records.
 
 9. The NmG ISA Account may only be operated using 
 the service . Access to the NmG ISA Account is 
 not available through branches of the Society, 
 its Call Centre or by post. Withdrawals or transfers 
 may be made without notice.
 
 10. You may transfer your NmG ISA Account to another 
 ISA manager using an ISA transfer form. If we 
 transfer the investment in the NmG ISA Account 
 to another ISA manager, the transfer will be made 
 direct from the NmG ISA Account and not through 
 any other account you hold with us.
 
 11. Money held in an ISA managed by another ISA 
 manager may not be transferred into the NmG ISA 
 Account.
 
 12. Interest will be paid annually into the NmG 
 ISA Account on the 6th April. 
 
 13. If you should die, the NmG ISA Account will 
 no longer qualify as an ISA and all subsequent 
 interest payments will be subject to tax at the 
 appropriate rate. 
 
 14. Statements will only be provided online. You 
 should check the entries regularly and let us 
 know if you have any queries. 
 
 15. The money invested in the NmG ISA Account 
 must remain in your sole beneficial ownership 
 and must not be used as security for a loan.
 
 16. Any failure to satisfy the provisions of the 
 ISA Regulations or a false declaration by you 
 will result in the NmG ISA Account ceasing to 
 be an ISA and on closure the Society may deduct 
 income tax from any interest paid. We must tell 
 you if the NmG ISA Account has, or will cease 
 to be an ISA.
 
 
 
 
NetmasterGold 
 children's account specific conditions 
 
These 
 are the specific conditions that relate to the NetmasterGold 
 children's account (the " NmG children's Account"). 
 They should be read together with the Society's 
 general 
 conditions 
 for savings and investments and the NetmasterGold 
 General Conditions. In the event of a conflict between 
 any specific condition of the NmG children's Account 
 and any of the General Conditions, the specific 
 condition will apply.
 
 
 About the NmG children's 
 Account
 
The NmG children's Account is 
 not a share account and, therefore, you will not 
 become a shareholding member of the Society on opening 
 the NmG children's Account and you will not have 
 any associated rights. If you are already a member 
 of the Society, your membership will not be affected 
 by opening the NmG children's Account. 
 
 
1. You agree to be bound by 
 the rules of the Society, insofar as they are 
 applicable to depositors, as amended from time 
 to time. 
 
 2. The NmG children's Account will be opened on 
 the date your first investment is made. 
 
 3. The rate of interest payable on money invested 
 in the NmG children's Account is variable (which 
 means that it may either go up or down) and may 
 be varied at any time in accordance with the General 
 Conditions for savings and investments. 
 
 4. The NmG children's Account is only available 
 to Society customers who are registered and eligible 
 to use the service. The NmG children's Account 
 can only be opened as a trustee account. You must 
 be the parent(s) and/ or guardian(s) of the beneficiary 
 (who must be a child aged under 16 years). Only 
 one NmG children's Account of this type may be 
 opened per beneficiary.
 
 5. If your current account is in your sole name, 
 the NmG children's Account will be opened with 
 you named as sole trustee. If your current account 
 is a joint account and you either do not have 
 access via the service to any other current accounts 
 or you only have access to other current accounts 
 held in your joint names, the NmG children's Account 
 will be opened with both joint account holders 
 named as joint trustees. If your current account 
 is a joint account, but one of you also has access 
 via the service to another current account which 
 is held in a sole name (the "sole named account"), 
 you may choose: 
 
 
5.1 whether to open the NmG 
 children's Account with both of the current 
 account holders named as joint trustees; or 
 
 
5.2 whether to open the NmG 
 children's Account with only you as the holder 
 of the sole named account as trustee.
 
 
 In all cases where there are 
 joint trustees, the NmG children's Account may 
 be operated by either trustee. We regret that 
 it is not technically possible to require the 
 authority of both trustees for a transaction. 
 In the event of a dispute between the trustees, 
 please advise us as soon as possible in order 
 that the balance may be transferred to either 
 a branch based or postal account. 
 
 6. If you hold the NmG children's Account as a 
 sole trustee and you either withdraw from the 
 service or have access to the service terminated 
 by us, we will give you at least 30 days' notice 
 to close the NmG children's Account or to transfer 
 the balance to a branch based or postal account. 
 If you fail to close the NmG children's Account 
 within the notice period or to transfer the balance 
 to a branch based account or a postal account, 
 we will close the NmG children's Account and send 
 you a cheque for the balance together with any 
 interest due on it at the rate currently being 
 paid (less any charges or other sums due to us). 
 The cheque will be made payable to the trustee 
 or trustees (as the case may be) and will be sent 
 to the address we hold for you in our records. 
 
 
 
6.1 If you hold the NmG children's 
 Account as a joint trustee and either one of 
 you withdraws from the service or has access 
 to the service terminated by us, we will transfer 
 the NmG children's Account into the name of 
 the account holder that retains access to the 
 service on a sole trustee basis. If both of 
 you withdraw from the service or have access 
 to the Service terminated by us, we will give 
 you at least 30 days' notice to close the NmG 
 children's Account or to transfer the balance 
 to a branch based account or a postal account 
 . If you fail to close the NmG children's Account 
 within the notice period or to transfer the 
 balance to a branch based account or a postal 
 account, we will close the NmG children's Account 
 and send you a cheque for the balance together 
 with any interest due on it at the rate currently 
 being paid (less any charges or other sums due 
 to us). The cheque will be made payable to the 
 trustee or trustees (as the case may be) and 
 will be sent to the address we hold for you 
 in our records. 
 
 
7. Upon the beneficiary reaching 
 the age of 16 years, the NmG children's Account 
 must be closed. We would be pleased to advise 
 of other accounts that are available at the time. 
 Please note, however, that under the current tax 
 legislation, the balance would need to be transferred 
 to an account in the beneficiary's own name in 
 order for them to continue to receive interest 
 gross (subject to the required registration). 
 
 
 8. The NmG children's Account must not be used 
 other than as a trustee account on behalf of the 
 named child as beneficiary. The overall limit 
 for investment in the account is £10,000. 
 
 9. Money may be transferred to and from the NmG 
 children's Account via the service and through 
 an Internet enabled account that is a current 
 account. Money may also be paid in at any branch 
 of the Society and by post. 
 
 10. Interest earned on the NmG children's Account 
 will not be credited to any other account (except 
 in the event of closure or transfer). 
 
 11. Statements will only be provided online. You 
 should check the entries regularly and let us 
 know if you have any queries. 
 
 
 
Gold 
 Current Account conditions
 
These conditions 
 relate to the use of your Gold Current Account and 
 should be read together with the NetmasterGold General 
 Conditions. 
 
The Gold Current Account card 
 can be used as a cheque guarantee card, as a LINK 
 card to withdraw cash from a LINK money machine 
 and as a Switch card for use in an Electronic Funds 
 Transfer at Point of Sale (EFTPOS) terminal to acquire 
 goods, services or cash. The Society may also permit 
 it to be used to obtain other services that we may 
 provide from time to time. 
 
About 
 your account 
 
You will not become a member of 
 the Society on opening your account and will not 
 have any associated rights. 
 
DEFINITIONS
 
In these terms 
 and conditions conditions: 
 
 
- "the 
 Society" (or "we") means Norwich 
 and Peterborough Building Society of Peterborough 
 Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6WZ;
 
- " account" 
 means a Gold current account;
 
- "account 
 holder" (or "you") means the person(s) 
 in whose name(s) the account is held; 
 
- "this 
 agreement" means the agreement between the 
 Society and you relating to the account and in 
 which these terms and conditions are incorporated; 
 
 
- "card" 
 means a card issued for use with the account; 
 
 
- "cheque 
 book" means a cheque book issued by the Society 
 for use in connection with the account;
 
- "EFTPOS 
 terminal" means any system used to accept 
 transactions made by a Switch or other debit card;
 
- "the 
 password" means the password agreed between 
 the Society and yourself to enable the Society 
 to provide you with certain services in relation 
 to the account over the telephone; 
 
- "the 
 PIN" means the Personal Identification Number 
 issued by the Society for use with your card; 
 
 
- "rules" 
 means the Rules of the Society as amended or replaced 
 from time to time; 
 
 
Use 
 of the account 
 
 
 
1. You agree 
 to be bound by the rules in so far as they are 
 applicable to depositors. See section "About 
 your account" above.
 
 2
 
 
(i) The 
 account is only available to persons aged 18 
 or over.
 
 (ii) The account may not be used for commercial 
 or business purposes and the Society accepts 
 no liability in respect of an account used for 
 such purposes. 
 
 
 
Payments 
 and Withdrawals
 
 
 3. A minimum deposit 
 of £10 is required to open the account.
 
 4. You may withdraw up to £500 cash each 
 day provided that you do not draw in excess of 
 the cleared credit balance on the account and 
 the approved overdraft limit. 
 
 5. You must allow four full working days, after 
 the day you have paid a cheque into your account 
 (i.e. not including Saturdays, Sundays or public 
 holidays) before drawing against it. We may alter 
 this period from time to time by notice to you. 
 You should note that, on occasions, cheques may 
 be returned unpaid beyond this period.
 
 6. We will debit the account with: 
 
 
(i) withdrawals from the account 
 and payments made out of the account through 
 cheques, use of the card at cash dispensers, 
 EFTPOS terminals and other devices or elsewhere;
 
 (ii) transactions on the account authorised 
 by you or by any joint account holder;
 
 (iii) the amount of any cheque paid into the 
 account, which is not subsequently cleared, 
 with effect from the date the cheque was received;
 
 (iv) any charges, fees or interest due to us 
 in respect of the account in accordance with 
 our scale of charges in force from time to time 
 (a copy of which is available at any branch 
 of the Society or on our website); 
 
 (v) the costs of recovering or attempting to 
 recover monies owing by you to us if a debit 
 balance on the account remains outstanding for 
 seven days after a request from us to you to 
 bring the account into credit or within an agreed 
 overdraft limit. 
 
 
7. We will not be liable if 
 a retailer, supplier or bank refuses to accept 
 use of the card. If a retailer or supplier agrees 
 to make a refund, we will credit the account with 
 the amount when we receive the refund. We will 
 not be liable for any delay in receiving the refund.
 
 8. A request for authorisation of an EFTPOS transaction 
 will not be granted if the card has been notified 
 as lost or stolen or if we become aware that you 
 have drawn more on the account than you are permitted.
 
 9. We may refuse to make a payment on a cheque, 
 direct debit, standing order or EFTPOS transaction 
 unless you have sufficient cleared funds in your 
 account, or a sufficient approved overdraft facility, 
 at 5.00pm on the weekday (i.e. any day other than 
 a Saturday, Sunday and public holiday) before 
 the day the payment is due.
 
 10. The maximum bill payment that can be made 
 through our branches and Call Centre is £10,000 
 per transaction. There is no limit to the number 
 of payments that can be made per day. The maximum 
 bill payment that can be made via the Internet 
 using our NetmasterGold service is £10,000 
 per day per account. Bill payments are subject 
 to the availability of cleared funds or an approved 
 overdraft facility.
 
 
Interest 
 
 
 
11. Interest on any credit balance 
 is calculated on a daily basis and credited to 
 the account monthly. Cash and monies received 
 into the account by Bankers' Automated Credit 
 will earn interest from the day of their receipt 
 by the Society. Cheques paid into the account 
 will earn interest from the third day after the 
 day we receive them. 
 
 
Overdraft 
 facility
 
 
12. If you 
 are granted an overdraft facility you will be 
 entitled to use it, up to the approved limit, 
 on the terms, at the rate of interest and monthly 
 overdraft usage fee as we may notify to you from 
 time to time. Interest is calculated on a daily 
 basis and debited to the account monthly. We will 
 notify you in advance of the amount of interest 
 and other charges to be debited to the account. 
 
 
 13. If you draw in excess of the approved overdraft 
 facility, we may debit the account with any charges 
 due (including an unauthorised overdraft charge) 
 in accordance with our scale of charges in force 
 from time to time. 
 14. 
 
 
(i) We 
 may at any time by notice to you require the 
 amount of any debit balance on the account to 
 be repaid immediately in full or in part; 
 
 (ii) We may at any time cancel or amend any 
 overdraft facility by notice to you.
 
 
15. We may 
 from time to time by written notice to you set 
 the whole or part of any credit or debit balance 
 in the account: 
 
 
(i) against any credit or 
 debit balance in any other account or accounts 
 held in your name with us; or 
 
 (ii) against the outstanding debit balance of 
 any other loan or loans you may have with the 
 Society (whether or not secured). 
 
 
 
Joint 
 Accounts 
 
 
16. If the account is a joint 
 account we will accept the instructions of any 
 one of the account holders for all withdrawals 
 and for any other purpose in connection with the 
 account.
 
 17. All agreements, indemnities, obligations, 
 liabilities and authorities given by one or more 
 of the joint account holders shall be assumed 
 to be joint and several. In other words, each 
 of you will be fully liable in respect of the 
 account, together and individually. 
 
 
Cheques 
 
 
 
18. When 
 using the card as a cheque guarantee card you 
 must:
 
 
 (i) use 
 only cheques taken from the cheque book; 
 
 (ii) sign and date the cheque in the presence 
 of the payee; 
 
 (iii) ensure that the payee writes the card 
 number on the reverse of the cheque; 
 
 (iv) not draw a cheque for more than £100, 
 nor issue more than one cheque in respect of 
 any one transaction or to the same payee at 
 the same time or on the same day; 
 
 (v) not issue a cheque in excess of the cleared 
 funds or the overdraft facility available on 
 the account; 
 
 (vi) not stop payment of the cheque; 
 
 (vii) not use this facility outside the British 
 Isles or after the expiry date of the card; 
 and 
 
 (viii) accept that the Society may debit the 
 amount of any cheque, whether guaranteed or 
 not, to the account without reference to you 
 (even if the cheque bears any irregularity) 
 and you will be liable for the payment of any 
 debit balance so created, together with interest 
 and other charges.
 
 
19 We may 
 refuse to pay any cheque without incurring any 
 liability to you or to any third party, whether 
 or not there are sufficient funds in the account 
 to meet the cheque. We will only refuse to pay 
 a cheque where there is sufficient money in the 
 Account or a sufficient approved overdraft facility 
 to meet the cheque where there is a proper reason 
 for doing so. For example, because the cheque 
 has not been written out correctly or where there 
 is a court order that requires us to freeze the 
 Account.
 
 20. You must not post-date a cheque. If you do, 
 and it is presented to us before the date you 
 have inserted, we may pay the cheque at the time 
 it is presented, or return it as we choose and 
 without any liability to you.
 
 
Cards
 
 
21. The card may only be used 
 by the account holder to whom it was issued and 
 whose name is shown on the card. You must sign 
 the card immediately on receipt and keep it secure 
 at all times and separate from your cheque book, 
 PIN and any password.
 
 22. We will accept responsibility for faults which 
 occur in our or other systems which belong to 
 us, which cause you to suffer a loss, unless the 
 fault was obvious or notified by a message or 
 notice on display. We will not be responsible 
 for any consequential loss suffered by you or 
 by any third party. 
 
 23. We may issue a further card from time to time 
 unless you notify us in writing that you do not 
 wish us to do so.
 
 24. The card and the cheque book remain the property 
 of the Society and must be returned on demand 
 or on closure of the account. We may refuse to 
 issue or reissue a cheque book or any card (without 
 giving a reason) but will only usually do so if 
 you are in breach of these conditions.
 
 
PINs 
 and/or passwords 
 
 
25. You must keep the PIN, your 
 passwords and selected personal information secret 
 at all times and not permit them to become known 
 to any other person, intentionally or otherwise. 
 
 
 26. You must memorise the PIN and password and 
 not keep a record of them (even in disguised form). 
 You must immediately destroy the notification 
 of the PIN which we send you. You can ask not 
 to be issued with a PIN.
 
 27. The PIN can be changed at LINK money machines 
 owned by us, and those of some other institutions. 
 You must inform us, as soon as you can, and change 
 the PIN and/or password if you believe that anyone 
 else knows them.
 
 
Charges 
 and expenses 
 
 
28. You will 
 be liable for the cost of any proceedings, costs, 
 claims, demands, losses or liabilities incurred 
 by us arising out of:
 
 
(i) the 
 Society stopping payment of a cheque at your 
 request; or 
 
 (ii) your failure to comply with the rules or 
 these conditions.
 
 
 
Changes 
 
 
 
29. We may change these conditions 
 from time to time. We will only do so: 
 
 
(i) to reflect market conditions, 
 general banking or building society practice; 
 or 
 
 (ii) where we consider this to be fairer; or 
 
 
 (iii) to take account of any change in the law, 
 regulation, code of practice, decision or announcement 
 affecting our business or this account or any 
 change of working practice, technology or procedure; 
 or 
 
 (iv) where we consider that there is appropriate 
 commercial reason to do so. 
 
 
30 If the change is to your 
 advantage, we may make the change immediately 
 and tell you about it within 30 days.
 
 31. If the change is neither to your advantage 
 or disadvantage, we will always give you at least 
 30 days' notice before making the change.
 
 32. If the change is to your disadvantage, we 
 will always give you at least 30 days' notice 
 before making the change.
 
 33. We may vary the interest rates applying to 
 the account or introduce new rates of charge by 
 giving notice to you. We may do so for one or 
 more of the following reasons; 
 
 
(i) if it is reasonable to 
 do so in order to reflect a change or changes 
 which have occurred, or which we reasonably 
 expect to occur, in interest rates or charging 
 methods generally or in the banking services 
 sector; 
 
 (ii) to preserve, increase or reduce margins 
 between interest rates paid to our customers 
 or the providers of funds to us, and interest 
 rates charged to borrowers from us, in the interests 
 of our business as a whole; 
 
 (iii) if we consider it necessary for the prudent 
 or efficient operation of our business; 
 
 (iv) because of any change in the cost of administering 
 borrowers' accounts; 
 
 (v) to reflect a decision or recommendation 
 made by a court, regulatory body or Ombudsman 
 (including the Building Societies Ombudsman) 
 or any other official body or as a result of 
 any change (or anticipated change) in the law; 
 
 
 (vi) by agreement with you.
 
 
34. When we change the interest 
 rates applying to the account, we will tell you 
 about the changes within 30 days by either:
 
 
- letter, e-mail or other 
 personal notice; or
 
 
 
- within three working days 
 of the change by prominent notices/leaflets 
 in branches and by advertisements in one national 
 and two local newspapers selected by us. We 
 will state clearly the previous and new interest 
 rates. We will also have the previous and new 
 rates for the account available on our telephone 
 helplines and our Internet site within three 
 working days of the change
 
 
35. When we change any charges 
 in relation to the Account, we will give you at 
 least 30 days' notice.
 
 
Statements 
 of account 
 
 
36. When you have made transactions 
 on the account during the month we will send you 
 statements of account each month. You may also 
 ask us to send you statements on a more frequent 
 basis although we may charge for this service. 
 You should notify us immediately if any statement 
 includes an item which appears to be incorrect.
 
 
Closure 
 
 
 
37. You may close the account 
 at any time by written notice to at any branch 
 of the Society, or at our principal office at 
 Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6WZ England, provided 
 that you return the card and all unused cheques 
 and pay to us the amount of any debit balance 
 on the account. You must then also pay to us any 
 other amounts due to us in respect of the account, 
 whether arising on or after the date of termination. 
 
 
 38. We may close the account and end this agreement 
 by giving you at least 30 days' notice. We may 
 also close the account and/or refuse to accept 
 any further monies without giving notice to you 
 if there are exceptional circumstances, for example, 
 fraud. We will always tell you why we are closing 
 or have closed the account. If we close the account 
 we will pay to you the amount of any credit balance 
 on the account (after deduction of any charges 
 or other sums due to us). If you cannot be traced 
 after reasonable enquiry, the account may be closed 
 and the balance held in a suspense account for 
 such period as we may deem fit, after which it 
 may be forfeited to us (provided that we may repay 
 the balance in the event that a valid claim is 
 received). 
 
 
Lost 
 or stolen 
 
 
39. You must 
 notify us as soon as possible if the cheque book 
 or the card is lost or stolen or liable to misuse 
 or if the PIN, password or selected personal information 
 becomes known to anyone else. A 24-hour telephone 
 service is available for this purpose on Peterborough 
 (01733) 372374. 
 
 40. We will accept and act on notice of loss received 
 from a recognised card notification organisation, 
 e.g. Sentinel Card Services. 
 
 41. If notice of loss of the cheque book or card 
 is given orally, you must confirm it in writing 
 within seven days at the Society's Principal Office 
 at Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough 
 PE2 6WZ. 
 
 42. We will not provide a replacement cheque book 
 or card until we have received written notice 
 of the loss from you or a card notification organisation. 
 
 
 43. Unless we can show that you have acted fraudulently 
 or without reasonable care, your liability for 
 misuse of the card will be limited as follows:
 
 
(i) if 
 someone else uses the card before you tell us 
 that it has been lost or stolen or that someone 
 else knows your PIN, you will not be liable 
 for more than £50. After we have been 
 notified, you will not be liable for any further 
 use of the card by anyone else; 
 
 (ii) if someone else uses the card details without 
 your permission, and the card has not been lost 
 or stolen, you will not be liable.
 
 
44. If someone 
 else uses the card before you receive it, you 
 will not be liable.
 
 45. If you ask us about a card transaction we 
 will give you details of it. In some cases, you 
 will be required to give us confirmation or evidence 
 that you have not authorised a transaction. If 
 we need to investigate the matter further we will 
 need you to co-operate with us, our agents and 
 with the police if we need to involve them.
 
 46. If you act fraudulently you will be responsible 
 for all losses. If you act without reasonable 
 care and this causes loss, you may be responsible 
 for it. This may be the case if you do not follow 
 conditions 25,26 and 27 and other advice that 
 we give you about taking care of the card and 
 PIN
 
 
Notices
 
 
47. Except for notification 
 of a change in interest rates, any notice to you 
 under this agreement may be given by us by publication 
 in one national and two local newspapers selected 
 by us or by written notice to you (including in 
 a statement).
 
 
Transfer 
 
 
 
48. We may transfer or assign 
 this agreement and/or our rights and obligations 
 under this agreement. If we are of the view that 
 in so doing this will serve to reduce the assurance 
 which the Society provides to you, we will endeavour 
 to obtain your prior agreement.
 
Information 
 about you
 
 49. We will add to your 
 record with the credit reference agencies who 
 we use details of your agreement with us, the 
 payments you make under it and any default or 
 failure to keep to its conditions and any deliberate 
 non payment following a change of address without 
 notice. If this is a joint account, an "association" 
 will be created between each Account holder at 
 credit reference agencies which will link your 
 financial records. You and anyone else with whom 
 you have a financial link understand that each 
 other's information will be taken into account 
 in all future applications by either or both of 
 you. The linking will continue until one of you 
 successfully files a "disassociation" 
 at the credit reference agencies.
 The credit reference agencies will also use the 
 records for statistical analysis about credit, 
 insurance and fraud.
 The credit reference and fraud prevention agencies 
 from whom we obtain and with whom we record information 
 about you are:
 
 
- Equifax 
 Europe (UK) Limited, PO Box 3001, Glasgow, G81 
 2DR
 
 
 
- Experian 
 Limited, PO Box 40, Nottingham, NG7 2SS
 
 
We will also 
 use and disclose the information relating to you 
 and your accounts in the following ways:
 
 
- To assist 
 in tracing and pursuing debtors
 
 
 
- To comply 
 with any request for information received from 
 any appropriate regulatory body including the 
 Banking Code Standards Board
 
 
 
- To allow 
 us to provide you, by post, email or telephone, 
 with details of any products and services that 
 we provide or which companies within our Group 
 provide or which other companies with whom we 
 have business relationships provide, which we 
 think may be of interest to you
 
 
 
- For general 
 business purposes, marketing and research.
 
 
50. We may 
 make periodic searches of our records, credit 
 reference and fraud prevention agencies to manage 
 the Account, to take decisions regarding credit, 
 including whether to make credit available or 
 to continue or extendexisting credit. The searches 
 will not be seen or used by lenders to assess 
 your ability to obtain credit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contact 
 Us | 
 About 
 Us | 
 Recruitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 | Important 
 Info 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
