
Savers Investment Conditions
 
 
 
savers 
 | 
 Investment Conditions
 
 
 GoTo: Quickview Interest Rates to view current 
 interest rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. INVESTMENT 
 ACCOUNT TERMS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.1 
 We can change the terms on which your investment is held (other 
 than the rate of interest and charges ) as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 a) We can change these conditions and any special conditions applying 
 to particular accounts at any time. Changes may include the removal 
 of or amendment to conditions or the inclusion of new conditions. 
 Changes may be made if we reasonably believe that the change is 
 needed for any of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances 
 existing at the time or those which are expected to apply in the 
 near future).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) To reflect 
 general market conditions and standards (including the terms on 
 which similar accounts are offered by other building societies, 
 banks or anyone else providing financial services);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) so that 
 we can compete more effectively with other building societies, banks 
 and anyone else providing financial services;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) to improve 
 efficiency and/or reduce costs; (iv) to give extra benefit to investors 
 (including making the terms of accounts easier to understand);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(v) to take 
 account of changes in the law, decisions of an Ombudsman, regulator 
 or similar person, or any code of practice with which we intend 
 to comply;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(vi) to correct 
 errors; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(vii) if you 
 agree; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(viii) if the 
 needs of the business justify a change.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b) We may also 
 change these conditions and any special conditions applying to particular 
 accounts, for any other valid reason where we reasonably believe 
 change is appropriate, provided no customer is left in a comparatively 
 less advantageous position.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c) A change 
 which, in our reasonable opinion, improves a service or provides 
 for additional services, or which otherwise benefits you, may be 
 introduced with immediate effect. We will tell you about the change 
 within 30 days of it taking effect. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
d) A change 
 which is neither to your advantage nor disadvantage may be introduced 
 only after 30 days notice has been given.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e) A change 
 which is to your disadvantage may be introduced only after 30 days 
 personal notice has been given. In addition at any time up to 60 
 days from the date of the notice you may, without notice, switch 
 your account or close it, without having to pay any extra charges 
 or interest for doing this.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f) You will 
 be notified of changes as described above in at least one of the 
 following ways:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) by letter 
 or other personal notice; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) by general 
 notice in our branches and Principal Office, together with advertisements 
 in two or more local newspapers of our choice. Currently we use 
 Newbury Weekly News and the Newbury and Thatcham Chronicle. You 
 can find out which are the relevant newspapers by contacting Head 
 Office. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 The operation 
 of any Society share account is subject to the Society's Rules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. ACCOUNT 
 OPENING, HOLDERS & MEMBERSHIP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1 For security 
 reasons you are required to provide two forms of personal identification 
 when opening an account. One form of identification must confirm 
 your current address and the other your name and signature e.g. 
 recent utility bill or benefit book and passport or driving licence. 
 Please refer to the specific account type leaflet for special identification 
 requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 When you 
 open a share account you become a member of Newbury Building Society. 
 This means that you have a direct say in how the Society is run. 
 You are entitled to vote at the Society's Annual General Meeting, 
 provided your account was open at the previous year end (31 October) 
 and had a balance of at least £100. Full details of your rights 
 as a member and the procedure for the Annual General Meeting are 
 in the Society's rules. You can obtain a copy of our rules by requesting 
 them from Head Office, or any of our branches. When you open an 
 account, you will be given a copy of the Society's latest Summary 
 Financial Statement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 The first 
 named on your account is called the Representative Joint Holder. 
 The Representative Joint Holder is the only person on the joint 
 account who is entitled to vote at the Society's Annual General 
 Meeting. The other parties to the account do not have voting rights. 
 You are entitled to choose the order in which the joint holders 
 are named on your account. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4 When you 
 open a joint account you will be asked how you want to operate it. 
 You make the decision as to whether withdrawals can be made by any 
 of the account holders in their own right, or whether more than 
 one or all signatures are required. This decision also applies to 
 account amendments and closure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5 On proof 
 of death of any joint account holder, we will recognise only the 
 survivor(s) as having ownership of, or interest in the account. 
 The survivor(s) shall be entitled to operate the account on the 
 same terms. In the event of marital dispute involving a joint account, 
 we will require both parties to sign for withdrawals until the situation 
 is resolved. In the event of a divorce involving a joint account 
 we will require both signatures to amend the account in accordance 
 with both account holders wishes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6 You can 
 transfer your investment to another person, subject to the conditions 
 applying to your account, our prior approval and the payment of 
 any necessary fee. No transfer will be valid unless made in a form 
 approved by us and until registered in our records. We may refuse 
 to permit such a transfer without giving any reason.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7 We do not 
 have to recognise the interest or claim of any person other than 
 the account holder(s) in respect of money held in any account, nor 
 will we be liable in any way for failing to recognise such interest 
 or claim, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.8 For a period 
 of 14 days after receipt of your first deposit into your account, 
 you may instruct us that you have changed your mind and we will 
 return your deposit to you, subject to cheque clearance, with any 
 accrued interest (tax will not be deducted). No administration charges 
 will be made. If you decide to move your account to another bank 
 or building society, we will co-operate with them so that the transfer 
 is made as efficiently as possible.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 ACCOUNT 
 DOCUMENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1 An "Account 
 Document" means a passbook, certificate, card or any similar item, 
 which we designate to be an Account Document. We will give you an 
 Account Document but it will remain our property and must be returned 
 to us whenever we ask, to be brought up to date or for such other 
 purposes as we may reasonably require. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2 You must 
 produce the relevant Account Document before making a withdrawal.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3 If you discover 
 that any Account Document is missing, you should contact us by phone 
 initially so that we can secure your account. You should then notify 
 us in writing, and after you have:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) given any 
 indemnity, and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) paid any 
 fee which we may reasonably require, we will, after a period of 
 14 days, transfer the amount in the account in our records to a 
 new account and then issue you with a new Account Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4 If someone 
 other than you produces your Account Document to us, pretends to 
 be you or to be authorised by you and is therefore able to withdraw 
 money from your account, you will be liable for the amount of any 
 withdrawals made, if you have acted fraudulently or with gross negligence. 
 If your account document is misused after you have informed us that 
 it is missing, we will refund the amount transferred from your account. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 PAYMENT 
 OF INTEREST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 The product 
 leaflets relating to our investment accounts, detail how interest 
 is calculated, the way it is paid and dates on which it is paid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2 The Society 
 pays interest on your investment from the day we receive the funds. 
 If the investment is made by cheque, we pay you interest from the 
 fourth bank working day after we receive the cheque (bank working 
 days are Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays). If the cheque 
 is not honoured then the funds will be removed from your account 
 and no interest will be earned on this amount. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3 We can change 
 the rate of interest paid on your investment as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Subject 
 to any special condition relating to interest rate changes on a 
 particular account, we may change at any time, the rate of interest 
 to be paid on investments, if we reasonably believe that the change 
 is needed for any reason in section 1.1 (a) (ii) to (viii) (which 
 may relate to circumstances existing at the time or those which 
 are expected to apply in the near future) and in addition:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) to reflect 
 general market conditions (including interest rates generally or 
 the terms on which similar accounts are offered by other building 
 societies, banks or anyone else providing financial services);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) if our 
 costs have increased or are expected to do so; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) to maintain 
 our financial strength for the benefit of all our customers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) We can also 
 change the rate of interest for any other valid reason where we 
 reasonably believe change is appropriate, provided no customer is 
 left in a comparatively less advantageous position.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) We will 
 tell you about rate changes within 30 days of the change taking 
 effect by the method given in 1.1 (f) (i) or within 3 days of the 
 change taking effect by the method given in 1.1 (f) (ii). If the 
 account is not normally operated through the branches we will tell 
 you about rate changes, within 30 days of the change taking effect 
 by the method given in 1.1 (f) (i).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 INVESTMENT 
 WITHDRAWALS & ACCOUNT CLOSURES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1 Withdrawals 
 can be made at branches of up to £250 in cash and £60,000 by cheque. 
 For any withdrawal in excess of £60,000 the cheque will be posted 
 from Head Office. The minimum amount that can be drawn by cheque 
 (unless the product leaflet relating to the account states otherwise) 
 is £25.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2 We can limit 
 at any time without notice the amount which may be withdrawn in 
 respect of any account, if we reasonably consider it necessary in 
 order to protect the interests of our membership as a whole.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3 If you make 
 a withdrawal by cheque and it is made payable to a third party, 
 then the cheque can only be stopped by the Society if we have the 
 third party's written consent. If the cheque is made payable to 
 you, we need your authority to stop the cheque. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4 All cheques 
 drawn from Society accounts are "Account Payee Only", which means 
 they cannot be endorsed to the benefit of a third party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5 Funds invested 
 by cheque are normally available for withdrawal eight banking days 
 after deposit. The only exceptions are Newbury Building Society 
 cheques and traveller's cheques purchased through the Society. You 
 may pay for your cheque to be specially cleared by our bankers to 
 reduce this clearance period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6 Cheques 
 drawn from your account are valid for six months. If you do not 
 use your cheque within the six months, we will endeavour to contact 
 you for your instructions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.7 We can repay 
 to you all or part of your investment at any time, without giving 
 any reason, after giving you at least 30 days notice, except where 
 the investment has been accepted for a fixed term which has not 
 expired. We do not need to give notice in exceptional circumstances 
 e.g. suspected fraud. You can close your account at any time, without 
 giving any reason, after giving any notice required by the special 
 conditions applying to the account, except where the investment 
 is for a fixed term which has not expired.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 UNCLAIMED 
 BALANCES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1 If :
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) you cannot 
 be traced after reasonable enquiry, and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) either:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) for a period 
 of 3 years you have made no payment to or withdrawal from your account 
 and the amount in that account is less than £100, or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) for a period 
 of 5 years you have made no payment to or withdrawal from your account, 
 we may decide to close that account and the money in it will be 
 retained by us. If, however, you contact us at a later date, we 
 will either open a new account for you and credit that account with 
 the amount of money in the closed account, or repay the money to 
 you, with interest, at a rate which we reasonably consider to be 
 appropriate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 RETENTION 
 AND SET - OFF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1 We have 
 the right to retain and set - off all money in any account you hold 
 with us against any money you may owe to us (whether under a mortgage, 
 loan, guarantee or otherwise) which is due for payment but which 
 has not been paid. We will inform you in writing when we have done 
 this. Interest or bonuses will not be paid on any money after it 
 has been used in this way.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 INCOME 
 TAX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.1 Where required 
 by legislation, interest on accounts will be paid or credited after 
 deduction of income tax at the appropriate rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2 If you have 
 no tax liability, we can register your account interest gross. You 
 can obtain an Inland Revenue IR110 booklet or R85 form from your 
 branch or Head Office, which can be used to register for payment 
 of gross interest. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3 Interest 
 received and subject to higher rate income tax should be entered 
 in your annual tax return and any further liability to pay higher 
 rate tax must be settled direct with the Inland Revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 CHARGES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.1 We may make 
 charges relating to the operation of your account and deduct those 
 charges from the amount in the account. The charges will reflect 
 expenses we incur and the cost of staff time and the use of our 
 office and computer facilities. We will tell you about our current 
 charges in our savings and investment literature when you open your 
 account but we can change our changes at any time:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Changes 
 may include the abolition of, or amendment to, existing charges, 
 or the introduction of new charges. Charges may be made if we reasonably 
 believe they are needed for any of the reasons given in section 
 1.1(a) (ii) to (viii) and section 4.3 (a) (ii) and (iii) (which 
 may relate to circumstances existing at the time, or those which 
 are expected to apply in the near future) and in addition:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) to reflect 
 general market conditions and standards (including the levels of 
 charges of other building societies, banks or anyone else providing 
 financial services). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) We can also 
 change the charges for any other valid reason where we reasonably 
 believe change is appropriate, provided no customer is left in a 
 comparatively less advantageous position.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Where we 
 introduce new charges, or increase existing charges, we will tell 
 you about the change, at least 30 days before it takes effect, by 
 either of the methods given in section 1.1 (f) (i) or (ii). A change 
 which abolishes a charge, or reduces the amount of an existing charge, 
 may be introduced with immediate effect and without notice, although 
 we will tell you about the change within 30 days by either of the 
 methods given in section 1.1 (f) (i) or (ii). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 SERVICE 
 OF NOTICES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.1 You will 
 be taken to have received any letter or other personal notice 72 
 hours after we have posted it to you. If we, accidentally, fail 
 to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) send to 
 you a communication intended for our investors generally, or category 
 of our investors of which you are one, or (b) display a notice at 
 our Head Office or any branch office, this will not make the notice 
 invalid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 CHARITABLE 
 ASSIGNMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.1 We require 
 all new investors to agree to assign any future windfall benefits 
 to the Charities Aid Foundation. A windfall benefit is a benefit 
 which you, as a shareholding member of the Society, could receive 
 in the unlikely event of any future transfer of our business by 
 way of take over or conversion to a Bank or other company. Your 
 savings will still be transferred to a new account with the successor 
 organisation but any benefits will count as windfall benefits. The 
 agreement to assign is for a period of 5 years from the account 
 opening date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.2 The Charities 
 Aid Foundation receives and administers charitable donations, which 
 are passed on to other specific charitable organisations. They have 
 agreed to use any money received by them under the assignment scheme 
 to support housing, education, health and the relief of social exclusion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.3 If you 
 were an existing shareholding member on 20 February 2000 and have 
 continuously maintained a shareholding account with us, you are 
 not affected by the scheme. For example, you may open new accounts 
 or transfer monies from one account to another as an exempt customer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.4 There are 
 other categories of exempt customers detailed in a separate leaflet 
 available from all branches. This information is only a summary 
 of the Charitable Assignment scheme; the complete terms are set 
 out in the account application form.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 ADDITIONAL 
 INFORMATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.1 Newbury 
 Building Society is a mutual organisation, which means we operate 
 for the benefits of our members. We have a membership 
 objective, which is displayed in all our branches and Head Office.
 
We have a formal 
 complaints procedure and a copy of our leaflet 'Internal Complaints 
 Procedure' can be viewed here. 
 If you have a complaint, please contact your branch who will try 
 to resolve it. If necessary, or if you wish it, the complaint will 
 be referred to Head Office. It is our intention to settle all complaints 
 promptly and fairly. Most complaints we cannot settle may be referred 
 to the Financial 
 Ombudsman Service.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.2 Newbury 
 Building Society is a participant of the Financial Services Compensation 
 Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 
 2000. Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, 
 that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares 
 and/or deposits and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors 
 are covered, including individuals and small firms. Although most 
 shares and deposits in UK building societies are denominated in 
 sterling, the euro and other European Economic Area currencies are 
 also covered. Further details are available from the Society. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.3 We provide 
 statements of account, a summary of products and interest rates 
 for the year and a list of the newspapers we report rate changes 
 in, on an annual basis, for all investment acccounts, unless they 
 have less than £100 in the account. The passbook can be seen as 
 a statement of account.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.4 If non 
 fixed rate accounts are superseded, we will either keep the interest 
 rate at the same level as a similar account in the current range, 
 or switch the account to a similar account in the current range 
 of investment accounts. Where there is no similar account, we will 
 contact the customer within 30 days of the account being superseded, 
 with details of the current range of investment accounts. We will 
 ignore notice periods and additional charges in switching the account.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.5 We do not 
 normally release investment information to credit reference agencies. 
 However, we may disclose personal information where required by 
 law or public duty, with your consent, or if in your legitimate 
 interests; to our regulators; and to other third parties to for 
 example, transmit and collect money, investigate complaints, administer 
 the account, and for auditing purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.6 We do not 
 record telephone conversations. If you have a query relating to 
 your accounts or the conditions relating to that account, you can 
 contact your local branch, phone our Head Office during office hours 
 or consult our website. Newbury Building Society is a participant 
 of the Financial Ombudsman Service. We also comply with The Banking 
 Code, The General Insurance Standards Council Code and The Mortgage 
 Code. Copies of all Codes are available on request from any of our 
 branches or from Head Office. You have the right under the Data 
 Protection Act 1998 to know what personal data is held about you 
 by the Society and to ask for any inaccuracies to be corrected. 
 Please write to Head Office if you do not wish to receive marketing 
 material.
 
 
 GoTo: Quickview Interest Rates 
 to view current interest rates.
 
 
 
Newbury 
 Building Society is a participant of the Financial 
 Ombudsman Service. We also comply with the Mortgage, 
 Banking 
 and GISC Codes, 
 copies of which are available on request. You have the right under 
 the Data Protection Act 1998 to know what personal data is held 
 about you by the Society and to have any inaccuracies corrected. 
 Please write to Head Office if you do not want to receive marketing 
 material. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
