
 
 
 A Customer Guide
 
 As a regional building society who's
 roots are firmly embedded in the
 North, we strive to assist local
 people with a wide range of key
 financial services. These include:
 
 
- Savings and Investments
 
- Buying a home
 
- Borrowing money
 
- Insurances
 
- Travellers Cheques and Foreign Currency
 
- Credit Cards
 
- Personal Loans
 
 This guide has been designed to offer a simple explanation of:
 
 
- THE SERVICES WE OFFER
 
- THE WAY WE WORK
 
- OUR ASSOCIATED SUBSIDIARY COMPANY
 
 We aim to help customers manage their money
 matters safely and successfully and we pride
 ourselves on our open and friendly manner.
 If you would like further details about any of
 the services mentioned on this page, contact
 your local Branch, Agency or Customer Services
 Department at Head Office for further details, or click here to fill in our on-line form.
 
 
 We look forward to hearing from you.
 
 1. THE SERVICES WE OFFER
 
 As a building society, our services fall broadly into
 three categories:
 
 
- Savings and investments
 
- Mortgages and loans
 
- Other related financial services
 
 SAVINGS AND INVESTMENTS
 
 The Barnsley Building Society offers a secure home
 for your savings with a range of attractive returns
 dependent upon the amount you wish to save and
 how quickly you wish to have access to your funds.
 
 Instant Access Accounts
 
 These enable you to invest and withdraw money
 without having to give prior notice. Some offer tiered
 rates which offer a higher level of interest dependent
 upon the amount held within the account.
 
 High Interest Earning Accounts
 
 These accounts usually require you to give notice
 before you can withdraw funds, but they also give you
 the option of either waiting for the end of the notice
 period, or forfeiting the interest earned on the
 withdrawal if taken within the notice period. They
 have tiered rates which offer a higher level of interest
 dependent upon the amount invested in the account.
 
 ISA Accounts - Falcon Cash ISA & Falcon TESSA ISA
 
 We developed these accounts
 under government guidelines to be
 able to offer you a tax free method of
 saving. Falcon CASH ISA is a mini ISA
 developed for cash only. Falcon TESSA ISA is a
 tax free home for maturing TESSA capital only.
 
 Monthly Income Accounts
 
 These accounts pay interest on a
 monthly basis at premium
 interest rates on sums
 starting at £10,000. They require specific
 notice periods for
 withdrawals but also
 carry the option of
 forfeiting the interest earned
 on the withdrawal, if it is
 taken within that period.
 
 Falcon Flexi-Save
 
 Falcon Flexi-Save is our most flexible account offering a highly attractive rate. It
 allows for monthly saving, but does
 not restrict you to saving a set
 amount per month, nor do you have to
 save every month. You choose the amount
 you wish to save between £20.00 and £250.00 and when, with the only 
 restrictions being that just two withdrawals are
 permitted per calendar year and you make no more
 than one payment per month.
 
 Age Specific Accounts
 
 Falcon First (AGES 0-16)
 
 This account caters for children’s
 savings from £1 up to £10,000. It
 offers instant access to the
 funds with no withdrawal
 penalties and an attractive interest
 rate regardless of the amount invested.
 
 Falcon Club (AGES 16-23)
 
 This account caters for young
 adults from 16-23 who wish to
 save from £1 to £10,000. It
 offers instant access to funds
 with no withdrawal penalties
 and an attractive interest rate
 regardless of the amount
 invested. Other incentives are offered on account
 opening and at 17th, 18th and 21st birthdays.
 
 Falcon 50 Years +
 
 This account caters for individuals aged 50 and over.
 It offers tiered interest rates which pay a higher level of
 return dependent upon the
 account balance. A monthly income
 option is also available for those wishing to take
 a regular income from their savings.
 
 Affinity Accounts
 
 Affinity accounts have been developed with some
 local sporting clubs which have been branded to their
 own unique identities and aimed towards their supporters.
 The accounts all offer instant access and
 have one attractive interest rate on investments of
 £100 or more for adults and £10 or more for under 16's.
 The club also receives a bonus payment
 based upon the average balance held within all the
 accounts throughout the year.
 
 Mortgages and Loans
 
 We have a selection of mortgage products which offer
 solutions to the wide range of requirements of today’s
 homebuyer. Our representatives will be pleased to
 discuss which scheme may be the most appropriate for
 your individual circumstances. We can also offer
 additional mortgage loans to existing borrowers for
 home improvements or other personal spending.
 
 YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON
 A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 Insurances
 
 We arrange insurance cover for a wide range of risks for
 your home and its contents, which can also be extended
 to encompass caravans. We will also provide quotations
 for the cover of more specialised requirements should
 the need arise. Cover is arranged in conjunction with a
 major insurance company who can provide the best
 combination of protection and value.
 
 
 The Society is also able to offer a specialist Loancare
 insurance which offers protection against accident,
 sickness and unemployment. Should any of these
 situations occur your mortgage payments will be
 covered for a set period.
 
 
 Travel Insurance
 
 We now offer a comprehensive annual travel insurance
 package which provides protection for holidays taken
 within the 12 month period, subject to certain
 requirements as laid out in the leaflet. The cost of the
 insurance can be paid in one amount or by direct debit
 over the year.
 
 Travellers Cheques and Foreign Currency
 
 When travelling abroad you can order your American
 Express travellers cheques and foreign currency through
 any of our Branches.
 
 Credit Cards
 
 We also offer our customers a Barnsley Building
 Society Credit Card which has the backing of
 Mastercard and is managed through MBNA
 International Bank Ltd, which is the world’s largest
 bank card issuer. In addition to many other benefits,
 our credit card has a low interest rate and attracts
 no annual fee.
 
 Personal Loans
 
 We can offer a personal unsecured loan service to our
 customers through MBNA International Bank Ltd. The
 product offers an attractive rate for loans from £1,000
 to £15,000 over a period of 1 to 5 years.
 
 2. THE WAY WE WORK
 
 Opening an Investment Account
 
 Before you open an account with us we will provide
 you with full written details of the product including
 Terms and Conditions, to ensure that they match your
 requirements. We will also provide current interest rate
 information.
 
 Our investment application form also includes a
 section regarding Charitable Assignment, which all
 new customers who wish to open accounts which
 provide membership to the Society, will be required to
 sign. Charitable Assignment is simply a declaration
 which assigns to the Charities Aid Foundation, any
 windfall conversion benefit to which they may become
 entitled. The agreement lasts for the first five years of
 membership. There are a few exceptions, with the
 large majority falling into the two categories of:
 
 
- All mortgage members
 
- Existing investing members with accounts opened before the effective date
 
 Personal Identity
 
 ONE of the following:
 
 
- Current Signed Passport
 
- Current Full UK Driving Licence (Old Version) or Current UK Photo-Card Driving Licence
 
- Benefit Book
 
- Inland Revenue Tax Notification
 
- Self-Employed in the Construction Industry - Tax Exemption Certificate with Photo of Holder
 
- Residence Permit issued by The Home Office
 
- Birth Certificate (only acceptable up to the age of 17)
 
 Permanent Address Verification
 
 ONE of the following:
 
 
- Recent Utility Bill
 
- Current Full UK Driving Licence (Old Version) or Current UK Photo-Card Driving Licence (if not used for evidence of ID)
 
- Bank, Building Society Statement or Passbook (the most recent and showing current address)
 
- Mortgage Statement (the most recent from a recognised lender)
 
- Local Authority Rent Book or Tenancy Agreement
 
- Benefit Book (if not used for evidence of ID)
 
- Council Tax Bill (current year)
 
- Solicitor's Letter Confirming Recent House Purchase (in such cases the previous address should also be verified)
 
 We may carry out a voters roll
 check as additional confirmation of your permanent
 address.
 
 Cooling Off Period
 
 If, after careful consideration, you decide that you are
 not happy with your choice of savings or investment
 account(s) and you bring this to our attention within 14
 days of your initial receipt, we will help you to either
 switch accounts or return your money with any interest
 earned over that period (please note any cheques paid in
 will have to clear before a refund can be given).
 We will ignore any notice
 periods and additional charges in these cases. Fixed
 rate accounts are excluded from this concession.
 
 Joint Investment Accounts
 
 The Society is happy to set up joint access for most
 types of accounts when requested. However as a joint
 account is actually owned by two parties, there are
 subtle differences over a standard account opening.
 One of the parties must elect to be the Representative
 Joint Account Shareholder to receive Notices of
 Annual General Meetings, newsletters and updated
 information about that account. This person will be the
 first named person on the account passbook and will
 be able to attend meetings and vote.
 
 In the unfortunate event of the death of one or other
 of the parties, the account will become the property of
 the remaining account holder. As such, the account will be
 transferred into the name of the
 remaining account holder for continuing use.
 
 Note:	If the Society has been notified of cases of
 divorce, separation or dispute, the account will be
 frozen and no withdrawals will be allowed until both
 parties are able to authorise the relevant paperwork.
 
 How Interest is Calculated
 
 Interest is calculated on a daily basis, including the day of receipt
 but excluding the day of withdrawal. If you ask us, we will
 also give you a full explanation of how we work out interest.
 
 Missing Passbooks
 
 Please take care of your passbooks
 
 It is essential that you tell us as soon as you suspect or discover that
 your passbook has been lost or stolen by telephoning your Local Branch.
 
 Mortgages and Loans
 
 Choosing a Mortgage
 
 Information about the various types of mortgages
 available can be obtained by speaking to staff at
 any of our Branches. Under the Mortgage Code the
 Society offers three levels of service to all customers
 dealing direct with the Society to help them choose
 a mortgage, these being:-
 
 
- Advice and recommendation as to which of our mortgage products is most suitable for you based on your particular requirements.
 
- Information on the range of mortgage products we offer.
 
- Information on a particular mortgage product from our range, if you have made up your mind already.
 
 We can also provide information on the particular
 mortgage chosen by customers who apply to the
 Society through a mortgage intermediary.
 
 Interest Rates
 
 The Society's traditional interest rate is variable, which
 means it can be changed upwards or downwards by the Society's
 Board of Directors. This rate is known as the Society's basic variable rate.
 The level of this rate depends on the current conditions in the financial market
 in which the Society operates.
 
 For new borrowers, the Society usually offers a discount off the basic variable rate for an initial
 period, typically 2 or 4 years.
 
 From time to time the Society may have available a fixed interest rate where the rate does not
 move either upwards or downwards for a certain period.
 
 A capped rate may sometimes be available where the interest rate will not be
 higher than a given figure for a limited period. However, the interest rate on the capped mortgage will
 follow the Society's basic variable rate when it is below the capped rate.
 
 Terms and conditions apply to the discount, fixed and capped interest rates which are notified to borrowers.
 After the agreed discount, fixed or capped rate period the interest rate changes to the Society's basic
 variable rate for the remaining term of the mortgage.
 
 Full details of the various interest rates available can be obtained from any of the Society's branches.
 
 The Mortgage In Operation
 
 Whenever you borrow money from us, we will supply
 details of the conditions and costs involved.
 Subsequently, you will always be given at least 7 days
 notice of any change of interest rates and payments.
 
 
 Shortly after the Society’s financial year end on 31st
 December each year, you will be sent a statement
 detailing the transactions made on your account
 during the past year.
 
 Changes in Terms and Conditions
 
 Occasionally terms and conditions regarding your mortgage may have to
 be changed. If this occurs, the Society would give you reasonable notice (of at least 30 days)
 in writing before implementation, explaining the nature of any change.
 
 Financial Difficulties
 
 Should your personal circumstances change and you experience difficulties in making repayments you
 should contact us quickly, as doing so will help us to try and make suitable arrangements before serious
 arrears develop.
 
 The Society will be as sympathetic as possible in genuine cases of hardship.
 You can also get help and advice from debt counselling organisations. At your
 request and with your consent, we will liaise, wherever possible, with debt
 counselling organisations that we recognise, for example:
 
 
- Citizens Advice Bureau, or
 
- Money Advice Centres, or
 
- The Consumer Credit Counselling Service
 
 Charges and Fees
 
 Up-to-date information on any charges and fees
 associated with mortgage and investment accounts, as
 well as cheque clearance periods and rules
 concerning overdrawn accounts is contained in our
 "Charges and Fees" page.
 
 Confidentiality
 
 We go to great lengths to protect the right to
 confidentiality of all our customers. We will treat all
 your personal information as private and confidential
 (even when you are no longer a customer). Nothing
 about your accounts nor your name and address will
 be disclosed to anyone, including other companies in
 our group, other than in four exceptional cases
 permitted by law. These are:
 
 
- If we have to give the information by law
 
- If there is a duty to the public to reveal the information
 
- If it is in our interests to give the information (but not for marketing purposes)
 
- If you ask us to reveal the information, or if we have your permission
 
 You will be reminded every three years of your right to
 withdraw your consent to receive Marketing/Advertising material by notice in the Members'
 Newsletter - The Falcon.
 
 Data Protection
 
 The Data Protection Act 1998 gives you the right to access
 your personal details held on file by organisations
 such as ourselves. We will be happy to allow you to
 have your own copy of these details when you confirm
 your request in writing, addressed to the Secretary, with
 your agreement to pay the relevant administration fee.
 Details of the fee can be found in our Charges and Fees 
 page.
 
 Complaints Procedure & the
 
Financial Ombudsman Service
 
 The Society is a member of the Financial Ombudsman Service Scheme.
 
 Although we are committed to providing you with a 
 first class service, we recognise that there may be an occassion
 when you feel that we may not have done this, and you may wish
 to make a complaint. We will always try to resolve any complaint
 speedily and at the earliest possible stage.
 
 We will try to ensure that we resolve all our complaints
 by the close of business on the day after the complaint.
 If this is not possible, we have a formal complaints procedure
 which we would ask you to follow:
 
 
- Arrange to discuss the problem with the
 appropriate Department or Branch Manager.
 He/She will acknowledge your problem within 5 days of receipt and try to settle the matter
 within 14 days. Most of the very few complaints we receive are more often than not settled at this stage.
 
- If you are still not satisfied, please write to the
 Assistant General Manager (Management
 Services/Compliance) at Head Office. He/She will investigate
 your complaint independently and will send you a written
 response within 14 days.
 
- If this fails to produce agreement, you should
 write to the Chief Executive at Head Office who
 will review your case once more and issue our
 final decision within 14 days.
 
- When you receive the final response from us and, 
 if you are not satisfied you should refer your complaint within 
 6 months of the date of the letter to the
 Financial Ombudsman Service,
 South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London
 E14 9SR. Telephone 0207 931 0044.
 
 These procedures are in accordance with the rules set out by the Financial Services Authority. You are welcome to check these standards with the Financial Service Authority if you wish.
 
 Financial Services Compensation Scheme
 
 The Barnsley Building Society is a participant in the
 Financial Services Compensation Scheme
 established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
 Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum 0f £31,700, 
 that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits in a society,
 and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including individuals and small firms.
 All our shares and deposits are
 denominated in sterling. Further details are available on request from the Society.
 
 The Members Newsletter
- 'The Falcon'
 
 We will send all members a copy of The Falcon, the
 Society’s newsletter, produced to keep our members
 informed about new products and ventures. It also
 includes updates regarding changes to account Terms
 and Conditions, as well as details regarding new legislation.
 
 The Banking Code
 
 The Barnsley Building Society is committed to the
 Banking Code.
 Copies of the code are available on request. The standards of the Code
 revolve around its key commitments, under which we promise that we will:
 
 
- act fairly and reasonably in all our dealings with you;
 
- make sure that all the products and services we offer meet this code, even if they have their own terms and conditions;
 
- give you information about our products and services in plain language, and offer help if there is anything you do not understand;
 
- help you to understand the financial implications of our products and services, how they work, and help you to choose the one that meets your needs;
 
- have secure and reliable banking and payment systems;
 
- make sure that the procedures our staff follow reflect the commitments set out in the code;
 
- consider cases of financial difficulty sympathetically and positively;
 
- if things go wrong, correct mistakes, tell you how to make a complaint, and handle your complaints quickly;
 
- make sure that all products and services meet relevant laws and regulations including those relating to discrimination;
 
- tell you if we offer products and services in more than one way (for example, on the Internet, over the phone, or in branches and so on) and tell you how to find out more.
 
 The Mortgage Code
 
 The Barnsley Building Society is committed to the
 Mortgage Code,
 which sets standards of good mortgage lending
 practice. Copies of the Code are available on request.
 The standards of the Code are encompassed
 in its ten key commitments, under which we promise
 that we will:-
 
 
- act fairly and reasonably in all our dealings with you;
 
- ensure that all services and products comply with the Code, even if they have their own terms and conditions;
 
- give you information on our services and products in plain language, and offer help if there is any aspect which you do not understand;
 
- unless you have already decided on your mortgage, help you to choose a mortgage to fit your needs;
 
- help you to understand the financial implications of a mortgage;
 
- help you to understand how your mortgage account works;
 
- ensure that the procedures our staff follow reflect the commitments set out in the Code;
 
- correct errors and handle complaints speedily;
 
- consider cases of financial difficulty and mortgage arrears sympathetically and positively;
 
- ensure that all services and products comply with relevant laws and legislation.
 
 3. OUR ASSOCIATED SUBSIDIARY COMPANY
 
 Barnsley Building Society - Financial Services Limited
Independent Financial Advice
 
 Barnsley Building Society Financial Services Limited* is a subsidiary of
 the Society and offers independent financial advice on mortgages**, pensions,
 income, protection and long term investments.
 
 
 They can be contacted direct on:
 
 Telephone: 01226 731999
 
 Website: 
 www.help-2-invest.co.uk
 
Email: 
 info@help-2-invest.co.uk
 
 
 *Barnsley Building Society Financial Services Limited is
 a member of the M & E Network Limited, Network House,
 Lister Hill, Horsforth, Leeds LS18 5AZ, which is regulated by the
 Personal Investment Authority.
 
 
 **The M & E Network is not responsible for, nor do the Personal
 Investment Authority regulate mortgage and building society
 services.
 
 April 02 0085
 
 
 
