
	
	
	
	Stroud and Swindon Building Society - Mortgages > Important Information > Choosing your Mortgage
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages Important Information Choosing your Mortgage
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages 
 
Remortgaging 
Moving Home 
First Time Buyer 
Existing Borrower 
Buying to Let 
Commercial Loans 
Important Information 
The Mortgage Code 
The First Steps 
Choosing your Mortgage 
Insurance 
How to Apply 
Fees & Charges 
 Savings 
 
 Insurance 
 
 Planning your Finances 
 
 Intermediary Centre 
 
 About Us 
 
 Other Services 
 
Term Assurance 
 
Personal Loans 
 
Annual Multi-Trip Travel 
 
Royal Int. Air Tattoo 
 
Loyalty Discount 
 
Site Map 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Choosing 
Your Mortgage
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Interest rates. Choosing how to repay your mortgage.
 	 Choosing how to repay your mortgage. 
Repayment and Interest Only mortgages. 
Interest rate choices.
Choosing your Mortgage
We offer an attractive range of mortgages and we will be pleased to explain each of them to you. We want you to be able to make an informed choice about which type of mortgage suits you.
CHOOSING HOW TO REPAY YOUR MORTGAGE
When you take out a mortgage, we ask you to choose how you would like to repay the money you have borrowed from us. All mortgages require you to pay back the sum of money that you borrow (which is called your 'capital sum') and also to pay interest on the loan. You must make regular monthly payments, usually by direct debit from your bank account. You can choose a 'Repayment Mortgage', an 'Interest Only Mortgage' or a combination of both kinds.
REPAYMENT AND INTEREST ONLY MORTGAGES
There are two basic methods of repaying the capital sum. The traditional building society 'repayment mortgage' in which each monthly payment represents part interest and part capital with the amount borrowed being repaid over the agreed term of the mortgage. The alternative method is an 'interest only mortgage' whereby the monthly payment to the Building Society repays only the interest due on the capital supported by a second, separate payment to another financial institution to invest towards the creation of a capital sum sufficient to repay the mortgage in a single amount at the end of the mortgage term.
Since the choice between these two alternative repayment methods will depend upon the rate of return on the investment plan it is impossible for Stroud & Swindon to advise you as to the appropriate repayment method. Your decision will be based upon the rate of return you believe to be available from the investment plan over the term of your mortgage as compared to the interest rate charged on the mortgage account. It would, for example, be likely that you would prefer a 'repayment mortgage' if you believed the investment return would be likely over the course of the life of the mortgage to be lower than the interest rate charged on the account. lf the expected investment return exceeds the mortgage rate then the interest only mortgage may be more beneficial.
In making the comparison you should bear in mind that some investment plans offer insurance protection to cover the risk of death of one or both of the partners to the mortgage.
The most common kinds of investment plan used to repay capital sums are Endowment Policies and Personal Pension Plans. With some investment plans it may be necessary to take out life assurance as well.
To help you set up a Financial Plan, we can introduce you to CGU, who offer a range of savings plans. Please note that we do not recommend any particular savings plan; your choice of Financial Plan (and any subsequent changes to it) should always be made in consultation with an authorised financial advisor.
It is your responsibility to choose a suitable advisor and to make regular contributions to your Financial Plan. To help you make sure that all is well, we will write to you every year to remind you to check that your Financial Plan is on track to produce enough money to repay your capital sum in full when your mortgage term ends. Please note that if you decide to stop contributing to a Financial Plan, you should change to a Repayment Mortgage.
On payment of a small administrative charge, you may change your repayment method at any time. If you want to change, please ask us for an illustration of what your new payments will be. N.B. If you wish to change to an interest only method this will be subject to a suitable financial plan that repays the loan at the end of the term being in force.
INTEREST RATE CHOICES
In addition to the decision on whether to take out a repayment or interest only mortgage, you should also consider the choices between our different mortgage plans. The following are brief descriptions of the different mortgage types that may be offered by us:
Variable Rate Mortgage
The interest rate will rise and fall during the mortgage term and your monthly payments will vary accordingly.
Fixed Rate Mortgages
With a fixed rate mortgage, the interest rate stays at a fixed rate for a specified period, then when that period expires, the interest rate changes to the current variable rate.
The advantage of a fixed interest rate is that it guarantees the amount of the monthly payments for a definite period. In this period the loan is insulated from interest rate rises, but the disadvantage is that if interest rates fall below the level of the fixed rate, it can be seen as expensive.
Discounted Rate Mortgages
With a discounted mortgage, the interest rate payable is the current variable rate discounted by a specific rate for a specified period. When that period expires, the rate changes to the current variable rate.
The advantage of a discounted rate is that it guarantees you will pay a rate below the current variable rate for a fixed period.
If interest rates go down, you will benefit from the interest rate reduction, but if interest rates go up, your interest rate will increase. Therefore you have to allow for possible variations in your monthly payments.
Capped Mortgages
With this type of mortgage, the interest rate is guaranteed not to exceed the capped rate for a specified period. Whilst interest rates may go up and down, you have the assurance of knowing that during this period, a maximum rate will apply. If our current variable rate falls below the capped rate, you pay the lower rate. If the current variable rate rises above the capped rate, you only pay the capped rate.
Combined Deals
Sometimes we combine the advantages of both a fixed rate mortgage and a capped rate mortgage in the same mortgage plan. We may also offer cashback deals from time to time where a percentage of the loan is paid back to you in the form of a cash sum.
Flexible Mortgages
The interest rate payable is the current variable rate, however you have the option of making increased payments, which can be used to:
&#0149 reduce the term of the loan
&#0149 build up a 'savings' reserve for later Draw-Down
&#0149 reduce the amount of interest charged on your loan
&#0149 fund 'study' or 'baby' breaks in the future.
Our range of products may include one or more of these features and we will be delighted to provide information on a single product or our range of products. We can also give advice and recommend the product from our range which we consider is most suitable to your circumstances and to meet your objectives.
 
	 
	 WHO CAN APPLY FOR A MORTGAGE?
Anyone over 18 with sufficient income to repay the loan can apply for a mortgage. Usually it is a requirement that the borrower intends to live in the property.
We lend to single and joint applicants up to a maximum of four. We never discriminate against mortgage applicants on grounds of race, colour, nationality or sex.
HOW MUCH CAN YOU BORROW?
How much you can borrow depends on how much you can afford and the value of your property. We believe in responsible lending; we do not want you to get into financial difficulties if, for example, interest rates rise during the life of your mortgage. We will help you to work out how much it is sensible for you to borrow.
You might find it helpful to come and see us before you start house hunting. When you know how much we can lend, you will know what price range to look at. We can also give you some helpful tips about choosing a new home. If you have already found a home that suits you, we will tell you whether or not we can offer a mortgage that puts it within your grasp.
We use the following guidelines to calculate the maximum amount we will lend you based on your income.
Single People:
Usually we lend a single person a maximum of three times the amount of their annual income
Couples:
Usually we lend a couple a maximum of three times the higher of the two incomes plus the amount of the lower income, or two and a half times the joint income.
If you think you can afford to borrow more, please come and talk to us.
If you have any ongoing financial commitments, hire purchase or maintenance payments for example, these are taken into account before we decide how much we can lend you.
The minimum amount that we will lend for house purchase is £2,000. Some of our mortgage plans have a higher minimum; please read our leaflets which describe individual mortgage plans.
ARE MORTGAGES AVAILABLE ON ANY KIND OF PROPERTY?
We offer mortgages on freehold or leasehold houses and leasehold flats in England and Wales. We offer mortgages on old and new properties of many kinds; the age of a property makes no difference to the proportion of its value that we are able to lend. Our policy is to look at each property on its merits.
FLATS
We do not usually lend as high a proportion of the value of flats as of houses. That means if you are borrowing money to buy a flat, you should expect to pay a larger deposit than you might pay for a house.
NEW PROPERTIES
New properties or those less than ten years old need to have an acceptable guarantee from the builder or the architect, showing that construction meets recognised standards.
LEASEHOLD PROPERTIES
Mortgages are only available on leasehold properties if the lease will run for at least 30 years after the mortgage has been fully repaid. For example, if you take out a 25 year mortgage, your lease must have at least 55 years still to run.
REPAIRS
The property you plan to buy may need to be repaired before you move in. In which case, we may hold back some of the money we are lending you until the repair work has been completed (we call this a retention). Sometimes we may be able to lend you extra money on top of the purchase price of the property to help you with repairs.
AUCTIONS
If you are interested in buying a house that is coming up for auction, you will need to have arranged a mortgage on the new property and be in a position to fund the purchase before the auction takes place. You cannot buy at auction relying on funds to be generated from the future sale of an existing property. Come and see us as soon as possible before the date of the auction and we will be pleased to advise you about how to proceed.
WHAT DOES IT COST TO TAKE OUT A MORTGAGE?
Wherever you go for a mortgage, there are a number of costs to be paid. You should remember to budget for the following:
THE DEPOSIT
You have to pay a deposit on the property you are buying. Usually this will be at least 5% of the cost of the property.
THE VALUATION REPORT
You have to pay for a valuation report on the property you plan to buy. To give us a clear idea of the value of the property, we send a valuer to inspect it. Please note that this report is not designed to give a full picture of the condition of the property; it's only purpose is to help us decide whether we can offer you a mortgage. The precise cost of the valuation report (which includes a standard non-refundable application fee) depends on the purchase price of the property.
THE SURVEY
Although you may pay for a mortgage valuation report it is advisable and prudent to arrange a survey by your own surveyor on the property you are hoping to buy. Any valuation report is prepared for us and not for you, the borrower. You cannot therefore rely on it to answer questions which concern your personal interests. There are two forms of survey specifically designed to help home buyers. You can choose a Building Survey, which is suitable for all types of residential property and will provide a full picture of both construction and condition. It is the only recommended inspection for particularly complex, large or dilapidated dwellings, or those over 100 years old. It can be tailored to your needs and will list both minor and major defects.
A cheaper alternative is the Home Buyer Survey and Valuation Report, which is intended for the more modern property. Although it will also include much other valuable information, it focuses on essentials, i.e. defects and problems which are significant and thus have an effect on the value of the property. Whichever report you choose the Society will be pleased to arrange for a surveyor to contact you to discuss your needs and any additional costs. These should be kept to a minimum if the surveyor we choose to undertake our valuation also undertakes your survey. Remember commissioning your own survey is a simple way to avoid unpleasant and possibly costly surprises after moving in and may enable you to negotiate a lower purchase price.
LEGAL COSTS
We will instruct a solicitor to complete the mortgage and you will have to pay their fees. If you are purchasing the property and instruct a solicitor (who is not a sole practitioner) to act for you we will usually instruct the same solicitor - this will keep the costs down. Whoever you choose to act for you please ask them for an indication of what the fees might be and ensure this covers completing the mortgage and the purchase.
You will also have to pay the following:
Land Registry Fees, so that your ownership of the property can be legally registered.
Stamp Duty, a government tax on house purchase. You do not have to pay stamp duty if you are moving your mortgage to us from another lender without moving house.
Searches, these are the enquiries your solicitor makes to confirm that the person selling the property is the legal owner and that there are no unpleasant surprises in store which might reduce the value of the property - such as plans to build a motorway outside the front door.
The land registry fee, stamp duty and search fees are sometimes called 'disbursements'.
HIGH PERCENTAGE LOANS
We charge a fee if you borrow more than 75% of the value of your property. This enables us to buy cover from an insurance company so that we can be compensated if we have to take possession of your property and sell it, but still do not recover all of the money we have lent you. If that happens, we and the insurance company may take legal action against you to recover our loss. The fee is a one-off charge which can either be paid in full at the start of your mortgage or can be spread over the first twelve months. 
If you borrow more from us at a later date and bring your loan above the 75% level or if you move house and apply for a mortgage of more than 75% of the value of your new property, you will have to pay another fee.
If excess advance cover is taken out on your mortgage, the insurance company becomes a third party to the mortgage and therefore, has to agree to any changes that you subsequently wish to make to the mortgage. This means that if you borrow more than 75% of the value of the property, it may be harder to change the terms of your mortgage at a later date.
OTHER FEES
We strongly advise you to budget for the following items as well:
&#0149 Removal costs.
&#0149 Estate agents fees if you are also selling a property.
&#0149 The cost of repairing and redecorating your new property.
&#0149 The cost of insuring your new property and its contents (it is a condition of the mortgage that you insure the property fully
&#0149 The cost of payment protection insurance and permanent health insurance
&#0149 The cost of life assurance to ensure that your mortgage will be repaid in full if you die before the mortgage term ends. For life assurance, we introduce our members only to NU which is regulated by the Personal Investment Authority and/or IMRO. You may arrange life assurance elsewhere if you wish.
TRANSFERRING YOUR MORTGAGE FROM ANOTHER LENDER · Remortgaging
If you already have a mortgage with another lender, you are welcome to transfer it to Stroud & Swindon. You do not have to move house to transfer your mortgage.
You will have to pay some (but not all) of the mortgage costs detailed previously. For example, you will have to pay an application fee and a valuation fee; there will also be legal costs although these may not be as high as when you buy a property.
We advise that you have payment protection insurance and permanent health insurance so that if you become ill or lose your job, your mortgage continues to be paid; and you should have life assurance so that your mortgage will be repaid in full if you die before your mortgage term ends.
When you transfer the mortgage it may be the ideal time to borrow more money for home improvements or for other purposes such as a new car or a holiday. We can lend up to 90% of the value of your property if you need the money for home improvements, and up to 75% of the value of your property if you need the money for other purposes. 
Choosing your Mortgage
We offer an attractive range of mortgages and we will be pleased to explain each of them to you. We want you to be able to make an informed choice about which type of mortgage suits you.
CHOOSING HOW TO REPAY YOUR MORTGAGE
When you take out a mortgage, we ask you to choose how you would like to repay the money you have borrowed from us. All mortgages require you to pay back the sum of money that you borrow (which is called your 'capital sum') and also to pay interest on the loan. You must make regular monthly payments, usually by direct debit from your bank account. You can choose a 'Repayment Mortgage', an 'Interest Only Mortgage' or a combination of both kinds.
REPAYMENT AND INTEREST ONLY MORTGAGES
There are two basic methods of repaying the capital sum. The traditional building society 'repayment mortgage' in which each monthly payment represents part interest and part capital with the amount borrowed being repaid over the agreed term of the mortgage. The alternative method is an 'interest only mortgage' whereby the monthly payment to the Building Society repays only the interest due on the capital supported by a second, separate payment to another financial institution to invest towards the creation of a capital sum sufficient to repay the mortgage in a single amount at the end of the mortgage term.
Since the choice between these two alternative repayment methods will depend upon the rate of return on the investment plan it is impossible for Stroud & Swindon to advise you as to the appropriate repayment method. Your decision will be based upon the rate of return you believe to be available from the investment plan over the term of your mortgage as compared to the interest rate charged on the mortgage account. It would, for example, be likely that you would prefer a 'repayment mortgage' if you believed the investment return would be likely over the course of the life of the mortgage to be lower than the interest rate charged on the account. lf the expected investment return exceeds the mortgage rate then the interest only mortgage may be more beneficial.
In making the comparison you should bear in mind that some investment plans offer insurance protection to cover the risk of death of one or both of the partners to the mortgage.
The most common kinds of investment plan used to repay capital sums are Endowment Policies and Personal Pension Plans. With some investment plans it may be necessary to take out life assurance as well.
To help you set up a Financial Plan, we can introduce you to CGU, who offer a range of savings plans. Please note that we do not recommend any particular savings plan; your choice of Financial Plan (and any subsequent changes to it) should always be made in consultation with an authorised financial advisor.
It is your responsibility to choose a suitable advisor and to make regular contributions to your Financial Plan. To help you make sure that all is well, we will write to you every year to remind you to check that your Financial Plan is on track to produce enough money to repay your capital sum in full when your mortgage term ends. Please note that if you decide to stop contributing to a Financial Plan, you should change to a Repayment Mortgage.
On payment of a small administrative charge, you may change your repayment method at any time. If you want to change, please ask us for an illustration of what your new payments will be. N.B. If you wish to change to an interest only method this will be subject to a suitable financial plan that repays the loan at the end of the term being in force.
INTEREST RATE CHOICES
In addition to the decision on whether to take out a repayment or interest only mortgage, you should also consider the choices between our different mortgage plans. The following are brief descriptions of the different mortgage types that may be offered by us:
Variable Rate Mortgage
The interest rate will rise and fall during the mortgage term and your monthly payments will vary accordingly.
Fixed Rate Mortgages
With a fixed rate mortgage, the interest rate stays at a fixed rate for a specified period, then when that period expires, the interest rate changes to the current variable rate.
The advantage of a fixed interest rate is that it guarantees the amount of the monthly payments for a definite period. In this period the loan is insulated from interest rate rises, but the disadvantage is that if interest rates fall below the level of the fixed rate, it can be seen as expensive.
Discounted Rate Mortgages
With a discounted mortgage, the interest rate payable is the current variable rate discounted by a specific rate for a specified period. When that period expires, the rate changes to the current variable rate.
The advantage of a discounted rate is that it guarantees you will pay a rate below the current variable rate for a fixed period.
If interest rates go down, you will benefit from the interest rate reduction, but if interest rates go up, your interest rate will increase. Therefore you have to allow for possible variations in your monthly payments.
Capped Mortgages
With this type of mortgage, the interest rate is guaranteed not to exceed the capped rate for a specified period. Whilst interest rates may go up and down, you have the assurance of knowing that during this period, a maximum rate will apply. If our current variable rate falls below the capped rate, you pay the lower rate. If the current variable rate rises above the capped rate, you only pay the capped rate.
Combined Deals
Sometimes we combine the advantages of both a fixed rate mortgage and a capped rate mortgage in the same mortgage plan. We may also offer cashback deals from time to time where a percentage of the loan is paid back to you in the form of a cash sum.
Flexible Mortgages
The interest rate payable is the current variable rate, however you have the option of making increased payments, which can be used to:
&#0149 reduce the term of the loan
&#0149 build up a 'savings' reserve for later Draw-Down
&#0149 reduce the amount of interest charged on your loan
&#0149 fund 'study' or 'baby' breaks in the future.
Our range of products may include one or more of these features and we will be delighted to provide information on a single product or our range of products. We can also give advice and recommend the product from our range which we consider is most suitable to your circumstances and to meet your objectives.
Insurance
INSURING YOUR PROPERTY
Your property must be fully insured. We have a wide range of products and would like to arrange buildings and contents insurance for you.
There are a number of advantages to letting us arrange your buildings insurance:
&#0149 you may spread your premium payments over twelve months at no extra cost; we will collect the premium with your monthly mortgage payment
&#0149 we aim to keep pace with rebuilding costs by automatically index linking the amount insured
&#0149 all of our policies have accidental damage cover at no extra charge
&#0149 if you need assistance in an emergency, we have a 24 hour helpline available
&#0149 Our Premier Combined Buildings and Contents Policy also includes annual Travel Insurance.
If we arrange your insurance for you, we send you a renewal notice once a year, giving full details of the premiums you have to pay and of the cover provided. If you need to make a claim the telephone number and the mortgage account number will be shown on your renewal notice.
You may make your own insurance arrangements if you prefer to do so although sometimes a particular mortgage plan may make our own insurance cover mandatory.
If you choose to arrange your own buildings insurance you must give us an undertaking that you will be responsible for insuring your property for the full cost of rebuilding it and at any time we request, you must show us your insurance policy.
INSURING YOUR MORTGAGE PAYMENTS
In the Section dealing with cost we draw your attention to the need to budget for Payment Protection insurance, Permanent Health insurance and Life insurance.
PAYMENT PROTECTION
If you are unable to work through illness, redundancy or accident, you may have difficulty in making your mortgage payments and paying insurance premiums. You may qualify for state benefit in respect of mortgage interest due but this will not start immediately and will not include capital payments on a Repayment mortgage. During this time your mortgage payments still have to be maintained and we strongly recommend that you take out Payment Protection Insurance. Please ask for a detailed leaflet and application form.
LIFE ASSURANCE
We always advise you to take out a life assurance policy so that your mortgage will be repaid in full if you die before the end of the mortgage term. If a borrower dies, we should be informed as soon as is reasonably possible.
PERMANENT HEALTH INSURANCE
To protect yourself and dependants against the consequences of a long term illness or incapacity we recommend that you take out Permanent Health Insurance.
We will be pleased to introduce you to NU, who can discuss your life and health insurance needs.
How to apply for a Stroud & Swindon Mortgage
STEP-BY-STEP GUIDE
When you apply for a mortgage, this is what happens:
1. We answer any questions that you want to ask, and give you a printed illustration of what your mortgage payments are likely to be together with a mortgage application form.
2. When you have filled in the forms, you should return them to us with :
a. your valuation fee and non-refundable administration fee.
b. a current passport or driving licence.
c. your three latest monthly bank statements.
d. your two latest pay slips and your latest P60.
e. the three most recent annual statements from your existing mortgage lender (if applicable).
f. if you are self employed, you should send us your last three years accounts and tax assessments.
3. If everything is in order, we send a valuer to inspect the house you intend to buy and we take up appropriate references such as employers and existing lenders. If you are applying for a remortgage the valuer inspects your house.
4. If all the replies to our enquiries are satisfactory, you receive a written offer of a loan (called the offer of advance). The offer is a detailed document. You should read it carefully, paying particular attention to any special conditions that may be included. At this time we will advise the level of service provided under The Mortgage Code and if you received advice and recommendation we will confirm our reasons for the recommendation.
5. With your solicitor's help, you exchange contracts with the seller of the property. If you are also selling a property, contracts on that sale are usually exchanged at the same time. At this stage, the sale becomes irrevocable. You pay a deposit and a date is set to complete the purchase.
6. You sign the mortgage deed, which is your promise to repay the money we lend you. Before the completion date, we send your solicitor a cheque for the agreed mortgage loan to be used to pay for the property you are buying. We charge you interest on the loan from the date on which we write the cheque; this is always shortly before the completion date.
7. When your mortgage arrangements have been completed, we send you a Completion Statement, which gives full details of your mortgage, including your monthly payments and the dates on which they must be paid (you will have signed direct debit instructions when you filled in your application form). The statement includes a reminder of any special terms and conditions that apply to your mortgage and details of your property insurance if you have asked us to arrange it for you.
SHARED OCCUPATION
If other adults live in the property with you - for example children aged 17 and above - they will have to sign a form consenting to the mortgage. This means that they cannot claim any interest in the property which prevents us taking possession if you fail to make the mortgage payments.
CREDIT REFERENCE AGENCIES
We may disclose all credit performance information to credit reference agencies and the Council of Mortgage Lenders Possessions Register.
COMPLYING WITH THE LAW AND OTHER CODES
For your protection we will comply with the Law and all relevant codes of practice in particular The Mortgage Code promoted by Building Societies and other mortgage lenders. Copies of The Mortgage Code and the Banking Code are available on request.
Please call us on the Freephone number below.
Freephone 0800 616112
The Mortgage Code was introduced by the Council of Mortgage Lenders in July 1997. Its purpose is to ensure that mortgage applicants and borrowers are treated fairly and reasonably. Stroud & Swindon are keen supporters of the Code and the principles it establishes. We want to make certain when you take out a mortgage with us that you have a very good understanding of what is involved and there are not surprises.
When you are making your application we will offer three levels of service. We will either :-
&#0149 Give you advice and recommendation as to which of our mortgage is most suitable for you. Our advice will depend on your particular requirements
&#0149 Give you information on the different types of mortgages we offer so that you can make an informed choice of which one to take.
&#0149 Give you information on a single mortgage if we only offer one product or if you have already made up your mind.
Additionally we will provide general information about our mortgages and the methods of repayment available.
Before completion of the loan we will:-
&#0149 Confirm the level of service provided and the reason for any recommendation.
&#0149 Provide full information on the product you have selected.
&#0149 Provide information on how the mortgage will operate after completion.
A copy of the code is available on request and provides full details.
	
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	We operate a Charitable Assignment Scheme (please click here to read full details).
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society is a Member of the Building Societies Association and subscriber to the Banking and Mortgage Codes. 
The Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life assurance, pensions and investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of Stroud & Swindon Building Society and Norwich Union.
	
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society | Rowcroft | Stroud | Gloucestershire | GL5 3BG 
	
	© Stroud and Swindon Building Society, 2001. All rights reserved.
	
	Telephone Calls may be monitored and recorded for training and security purposes
	Site design, build and management by 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 0800 61 81 61 
	 
	 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	 
 
	
 
