
 
	Coventry Building Society - all you need to know about choosing your mortgage and borrowing with the Coventry 
 
	
	 
 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
	Here are some answers to the more 
 frequently asked questions about our mortgages. This section 
 obviously can't be comprehensive, so if there is anything else you 
 would like to know please call us. 
	 
	
 
 
	 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 Are there any age restrictions ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 You must be over 18 
 to have a mortgage in this country. We generally recommend that the 
 mortgage term does not extend beyond your retirement age, and if 
 your mortgage is to be supported with a PEP or an ISA an upper age 
 limit of 70 will apply. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 Which is best - capital and interest or interest only 
 ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 Both have their 
 benefits. Which is best, depends very much on your personal 
 circumstances. If you are unsure which would suit you, have a look 
 at mortgages 
 explained or call 
 us now.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 Which mortgage scheme is best ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 Fixed, capped, 
 variable, discounted, flexible - all have their benefits. Which is 
 best, depends very much on your personal circumstances. If you are 
 unsure which would suit you, have a look at mortgages explained or call us now. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 Should I have daily or annual interest ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 Because both have 
 their benefits, we offer mortgages with daily or with annual 
 interest. Which is best depends very much on your personal 
 circumstances, for example if you know you will want to make 
 overpayments or regular capital payments on your mortgage, you 
 should probably consider a daily interest type mortgage. However if 
 you are not looking for flexibility in the payments you make, 
 accepting annual interest will usually offer you a wider choice of 
 mortgage schemes to choose from.
	
If you are unsure which could suit you call us now. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 How much can I borrow ? 
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 
 	
	This will depend on how much you earn, how much 
 you can comfortably afford to repay each month, how much your 
 property is worth, and the purpose of your loan.
	We will normally lend up to 3.5 times your annual income, or if you are 
 borrowing with a partner up to 2.75 times your joint income, 
 dependent on the Loan to 
 Value Ratio. This is of course a general guide, as the most 
 important factor is that you are comfortable with the monthly 
 repayment, once you have taken into account your other financial 
 commitments.
	
If you are borrowing to finance a property you plan to rent out, please click here for deails of our Buy to Let schemes.
	
If you 
 are employed or a director of a limited company your annual income 
 will generally be your regular salary plus any guaranteed overtime. 
 When assessing your annual income we will always make a deduction to 
 account for the repayments on any continuing outstanding loans, such 
 as for example a car loan or a higher purchase loan.
	If you are self-employed we would 
 usually assume your income was the average of your last three years 
 net profit and a projection for the current year. Please call us if 
 you would like to know more.
	If you are a contract worker we would estimate 
 your annual income, based on your earnings over your contracted 
 period - eg if you have six months to run on your contract, and 
 expect to earn £12,000, we would calculate your annual income 
 as 2 x £12,000 = £24,000 pa.
	We will always ask for written confirmation of 
 your income.
	As far 
 as your property is concerned we will generally lend up to a maximum 
 of 95% of the purchase price or valuation, whichever is lower subject to a minimum deposit of £1,500 or 5%. The maximum amount we could lend for an online application is £500,000.
 
 
 	
	A High Loan to Value lending fee will be charged if your 
 mortgage represents more than 90% of the value of your property.
	We will send you a 
 copy of our Lending Terms leaflet with your mortgage offer should 
 you apply. If you would like a copy now please email 
 us. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What sort of insurance do I need ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 As a minimum you 
 will need to have buildings insurance which can be arranged with us 
 or another insurer. You will also need to consider how best to 
 protect your belongings and your ability to meet monthly payments if 
 you are unable to work due to sickness, accident or unemployment, 
 and whether you should take out life assurance to pay off your 
 mortgage in full if you die unexpectedly. 
	If you would like to have a look at 
 our insurance services, go to mortgages explained for more details, or call us now to make 
 an appointment with a Norwich Union Financial Consultant. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 Will you lend to 'right to buy' council tenants ? 
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 Yes - if you are 
 buying a council house we can lend up to 100% of the discounted 
 purchase price, subject to a maximum of 75% of the current valuation 
 (70% if you are buying a council flat). 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 Will you lend for 'buy to let' ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 Yes - We can lend up to 85% of the
 purchase price or the valuation (which ever is the higher amount). Click
 here for more details.
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 Will you lend to me if I have a county court judgement against 
 me, if I've been declared bankrupt or if I've been in arrears 
 ?
	 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
	Sorry - no. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What sort of properties will you lend on?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 	
	We will usually 
 provide mortgages for houses built out of brick or stone with a 
 slate or tiled roof, provided that the mortgage valuation is 
 acceptable. We cannot however lend on flats in blocks with more than 
 five storeys.
	We 
 will normally be happy to lend on freehold properties, (feudal or 
 feuhold in Scotland), leasehold houses or leasehold 
 flats/maisonettes - provided it is not a sublease and that there are 
 at least 25 years remaining on the existing lease at the end of the 
 mortgage term.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 How long can the term of the mortgage be ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
	You can choose the 
 term of your mortgage to run up to 25 years for a capital and 
 interest mortgage. If you opt for an investment backed mortgage, and 
 depending on the investment policy you choose to repay your capital, 
 the term can usually be extended. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 How is interest calculated ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 Depending on the 
 mortgage scheme you have chosen, interest will be calculated either 
 annually (on 31 December) or daily. Interest is worked out based on 
 the amount of capital you owe us at the time of the 
 calculation.
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What happens if I repay my mortgage early ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
	This depends on the 
 type of mortgage scheme you have chosen and when you decide to repay 
 your mortgage. Generally if you have chosen a scheme that offered a 
 particular benefit, such as a fixed rate or a discount off the 
 Standard Variable Rate, you should expect to pay an early redemption 
 charge, if you repay any of the capital whilst the scheme benefit 
 still applies.
	If 
 you would like to repay your Coventry Building Society mortgage in 
 full, or would like to pay off part of your Coventry Building 
 Society mortgage please call us now. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What happens if I want to pay off part of my mortgage, or make 
 overpayments each month ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
	This depends on the 
 mortgage scheme you have selected. You can make lumpsum payments or 
 overpayments on all of our mortgage schemes, although you should 
 first check to see if any early redemption charges will apply to 
 your scheme. The way in which we will credit the payment to your 
 mortgage depends on how the interest is calculated on the mortgage 
 scheme.
	
Annual 
 interest
	If you 
 have chosen a mortgage where the interest is charged annually, 
 provided that there are no specific early redemption charges, you 
 can pay a lumpsum towards your mortgage at any time. Provided this 
 is a minimum of £1,000 or three months payments (whichever is 
 the greater) we will automatically re-calculate the amount of 
 interest charged to your loan, although your normal monthly payment 
 will not change.
	
If you simply want to pay a little more than you have to each 
 month, we will recalculate the amount you owe on 31 December, taking 
 into account all the additional payments you have made throughout 
 the year.
	
If you 
 would like to know more about the effect of making a lumpsum payment 
 towards your mortgage or overpaying each month call us now.
	
Daily interest
	If you have chosen a 
 mortgage where the interest is charged daily, provided there are no 
 specific early redemption charges, you can make as many lumpsum 
 payments or overpayments as you want, of whatever amount, whenever 
 you want.
	
Because 
 we calculate the interest on the amount you owe each day on these 
 mortgages you will get an immediate benefit from any additional 
 payment you make. The amount you owe will be reduced each time you 
 make a payment or by the amount of the lumpsum or the overpayment, 
 and the interest you are charged will also reduce, although we will 
 not necessarily reduce your monthly payment, unless you specifically 
 ask us to.
	
If the 
 scheme you have chosen has early redemption charges, you should take 
 these into consideration before going ahead and arranging to either 
 overpay your monthly payment or making a lumpsum payment.
	
If you would like to 
 know more about the effect of making a lumpsum payment towards your 
 mortgage or overpaying each month, call us now. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What happens if I can't afford to make my monthly mortgage 
 payments ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
	If your 
 circumstances change and you think you may have difficulties with 
 your monthly mortgage payment please call us straight away. We will 
 do all we can to help you overcome your difficulties and work with 
 you to find a solution. With your co-operation we will develop a 
 plan for dealing with your financial difficulties and clearing any 
 arrears, that is in both our interests. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What can I do to protect my monthly payments ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
	You can help secure 
 your mortgage payments by taking out a mortgage payment protection 
 policy. This will help with your monthly mortgage payments should 
 you be unable to work through no fault of your own due to accident, 
 illness or unemployment. Have a look at mortgages explained.
	Who's eligible to apply ?
	To be eligible for the 
 Coventry's Mortgage Payment Plan, you must:
	 	
 	 	 
	 	 	 
	
 Have (or be about to take out) a mortgage with 
 the Coventry, and not be in arrears with 
 payments. 
	 	 	
 
 	 	 
	 	 	 
	
 Be aged between 18 and 64. 
	 	 	
 
 	 	 
	 	 	 
	
 Have been in employment (including part-time or 
 self-employed) for no less than 16 hours per week, and 
 have been continuously employed for the past 6 
 months. 
	 	 	
 
 	 	 
	 	 	 
	
 Not have suffered or received medical treatment 
 or advice for any illness or disability in the past 
 year. If you have, any related claim will not be covered 
 in the first 12 months. 
	 	 	
 
 	 	 
	 	 	 
	
 Not be aware of any impending unemployment. If 
 you are, the subsequent claim will not be 
 covered. 
	 	 	
 
 	 	 
	 	 	 
	
 Live in the UK. 
	 	 	
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What fees or costs can I expect to pay ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 Depending on the 
 type of mortgage scheme you choose you may have to pay an 
 Arrangement fee. Current Rates details any arrangement fees 
 that apply.
	
Whether you are buying your home or remortgaging you will 
 usually have to pay a Mortgage Valuation fee. If you are buying a 
 home you may choose to have a Homebuyers report which, as well as 
 providing a mortgage valuation, will also tell you more about the 
 condition of the property you are buying. You may also have to pay a High Loan to Value 
 lending fee if your mortgage represents more than 90% of the value 
 of your property. Your mortgage quotation will list exactly 
 which fees will apply to your own circumstances.
	
You will also have to pay the legal 
 costs associated with setting up the mortgage, as well as the 
 conveyancing costs if you are buying a property. Your solicitor 
 should be able to give you a quotation for these. Some of our 
 mortgage schemes offer the additional benefit of a Remortgage 
 Transfer Service, where we will pay some of the legal costs involved 
 in the transfer of a mortgage, so look out for any special features. 
 We charge for some of the services we provide once your mortgage is 
 up and running. We will send you a copy of our "Fees and 
 Charges Explained" leaflet with your mortgage offer should you 
 apply. If you would like a copy now, please email us. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What happens if I move house ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 	 Most of our 
 mortgage schemes are "portable", which means you can keep 
 the same mortgage arrangement when you move house, topping it up 
 with additional borrowing at one of our then current mortgage 
 schemes. 
	
Alternatively as an existing customer moving home you can choose to change to a new Coventry mortgage scheme. And you don't need to worry about the early repayment charges on your current Coventry mortgage because on completion we will pay you a 'Movers Bonus' to cover the cost of these charges. All we ask is that you stay with us for at least a further 12 months. If you redeem your mortgage within 12 months of moving you will have to repay the Movers Bonus, plus any other charges relating to your current mortgage scheme. 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 
 What happens if I change my mind ?
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 
 If you change your 
 mind within 14 days of receiving our mortgage offer, and choose a 
 mortgage from a competitor we will refund any Arrangement fees you 
 have paid to us, please call us for the current 14 day Cooling Off Terms and 
 Conditions.
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Is there anything else you would like us to explain in this 
 section ?
- if so email us 
 now with your suggestions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
©2002 Coventry Building Society
