
Residential Mortgages - Charges for Mortgage Linked Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Policy
 and Practice and Charges for Mortgage Linked Services
 
The
 Society's current fees as at 1st April 2002 for mortgage services:
	LATE PAYMENT OF MORTGAGE PAYMENTS, INSURANCE PREMIUMS AND CHARGES If your mortgage payment, insurance premium or any of the following
items are charged to your mortgage account and are not paid in full, by the last day of the month, you will be charged interest on these items until they are paid. 
 
 
 
 
Accounts
 in arrears and other defaults
 If you are in breach of the terms of your mortgage the Society
 may take action against you for recovery of any monies that
 are due but unpaid. The amount of the fee payable in such
 circumstances will depend on the nature and the extent of
 the proceedings the Society has to take and will include charges
 made by the Solicitor acting for the Society.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Arrangement
 fee
 This fee is charged for certain types of mortgage products
 and will be payable at the time you make your mortgage application.
 If an arrangement fee is payable you will be advised at the
 time you make your application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bridging
 loans
 This fee is charged to cover the Society's costs for dealing
 with a bridging loan. The fee varies depending on the risk associated
 with the bridging loan.
 
 
 Open
 ended loan (unknown term) 
 £
 150 
 
 
 Closed
 loan (known term) 
 £
 100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPS
 fees (Telegraphic Transfer of Money)
 This fee is charged by the Society when mortgage monies are
 transferred directly to your Solicitor's bank before the loan
 is completed. The fee is normally deducted from the loan.
 
 
 £
 18 
 
 
 
 
Completing
 2nd charge questionnaire
 This fee is charged by the Society if another lender requests
 information from the Society (with your approval) to enable
 them to consider giving you a loan secured on your property,
 or after giving you a loan secured on your property.
 
 £
 55 
 
 
 
 
Copy
 mortgage statement
 Each year you will be sent free of charge a statement showing
 all transactions on your account. A fee is charged by the
 Society if you ask for a copy of the statement or if you request
 a statement covering part of a year. This fee covers the administration
 work involved in the preparation of the statement. 
 
 £
 10 
 
 
 
 
Despatching
 title deeds
 This fee is charged by the Society for sending title deeds
 to your Solicitor or Licensed Conveyancer, and includes the
 cost of postage. The fee will be automatically debited to
 your mortgage account, although you may pay it separately
 if you wish. 
 
 £
 30
 (£35 from
 1/06/02) 
 
 
 
 
Early-repayment
 charge
 This charge is made by the Society if you repay your loan
 before the end of any early-repayment charge period there
 may be for your loan. The charge will vary according to the
 type of mortgage product you take. Further information on
 the early-repayment charge is given in the "Mortgage Code
 Questionnaire", "Mortgages A Guide to Special Offers" (for
 variable rate products), "A Guide To Capped/ Fixed Rate Mortgages"
 and in the "Mortgage Product Sheet". 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fee
 on final repayment of your mortgage
 This fee is charged by the Society for the administration
 work involved when you finally repay your mortgage, and for
 receipting the mortgage documents. 
 
 £
 45
 (£50 from
 1/06/02) 
 
 
 
 
 Further
 loans
 These fees are charged to cover the Society's costs for dealing
 with a further loan and are deducted from the further loan before
 it is released to you.
 
 
 
 England
 and Wales 
 Scotland 
 
 
 £70
 (£95 from 01/06/02)
 
 £100
 (£95 from 01/06/02) 
 
 
 
 In certain circumstances it may be necessary for your Solicitor
 or Licensed Conveyancer to act, for example for the purchase
 of an additional share in the property, purchase of additional
 land or to advise a third party. There may be additional charges,
 for example if you have a second mortgage with another lender
 or advice is given to a third party. Please ask for details.
 In these cases any fees charged by your Solicitor or Licensed
 Conveyancer will be payable by you. In some cases the Society
 may require additional searches before completing your further
 loan. If an additional search is needed you will be advised
 by the Society's Legal Department. The cost of any additional
 search is payable by you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High
 percentage loan fee
 If we lend more than 75% of the purchase price or valuation
 of the property (whichever is lower), your loan will be a
 high loan to value advance. You will normally be charged a
 fee for it, called a high percentage loan fee, if you borrow
 more than 90% of the purchase price or valuation of the property.
 (If you borrow between 75% and 90% the Society will reimburse
 the high percentage loan fee to you). The fee charged varies
 according to the amount of money you wish to borrow. This
 fee will normally be deducted from the loan prior to completion.
 Specific details of this fee will be provided in the "Offer
 of Loan" or the "Offer of Further Loan". 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information
 from your title deeds
 This fee is charged by the Society when you ask to view your
 title deeds and/or information is requested, which will require
 Society staff to produce and/or work through your deeds. This
 can include any request for copies of documents, plans, etc.
 The fee will be automatically debited to your mortgage account,
 although you may pay it separately if you wish. 
 
 £
 15 
 
 
 
 
Interest
 We will calculate interest on your mortgage account on a daily
 basis and further details are given in our leaflet "Mortgages
 with the Cumberland". We will charge interest on your new
 loan from the date of completion shown in the Solicitor's
 Certificate of Title. If you apply for a further loan, we
 will charge interest from the date on which the money is released.
 The Society can vary the rate of interest on variable rate
 loans. The authority to vary interest rates is contained in
 the mortgage conditions (you will be given a copy of this
 booklet by your solicitor when you take out your mortgage).
 The actual interest rate to be charged in future and the timing
 of any change (either an increase or decrease) is at the discretion
 of the Society, subject to the provisions contained in the
 mortgage conditions. Further details of the different types
 of interest rates available can be found in our leaflet "Mortgages
 A Guide to Special Offers" and any other leaflets referred
 to in that leaflet, such as "Fixed/Capped Rate Mortgages".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lettings
 If the Society consents to the property being let whilst it
 is still in mortgage, the rate of interest will increase to
 1% above the Society's base variable mortgage rate. If the
 Society does not consent to the property being let whilst
 it is still in mortgage, the rate of interest will increase
 to 1.5% above the Society's base variable mortgage rate. Regardless
 of whether consent is given or not, if you are still within
 an early-repayment charge period, any remaining discount or
 other incentive will be withdrawn and any cashback you have
 received may be repayable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property
 insured by the borrower
 The Society requires every mortgaged property to be insured
 on an index linked basis. If you choose not to insure your
 property through the Society or you cancel the insurance we
 have arranged for you at any time, a one off administration
 fee will be payable. You will also be responsible for ensuring
 that adequate insurance is taken out to cover the re-instatement
 cost of the property. 
 
 £
 25 
 
 
 
 
Providing
 a reference to another lender
 This fee is charged to cover the Society's administration
 work involved if another lender requests a reference from
 the Society (with your approval) to enable them to consider
 giving you a loan. 
 
 £
 55 
 
 
 
 
Re-inspection
 fee
 This fee is charged if we need to re-inspect your property
 to make sure a further instalment of a loan may be released
 and/or make sure any repairs/improvements have been completed.
 This fee is paid to the Society prior to re-inspection of
 the property. 
 
 £
 35 
 
 
 
 
Re-valuation
 fee
 This fee is charged if we need to re-value a property, for
 example, to be able to release security or prior to giving
 consent to a letting. This fee includes a Society administration
 fee of £10. The fee is paid to the Society at the time
 you make your application. 
 
 £
 60 
 
 
 
 
Release
 of security
 This fee is charged where the Society is requested to release
 part of its security for the loan. For example, the sale of
 a plot of land adjoining the property. The Society may request
 an up to date valuation of the property before it can consider
 a release of security. The fee for the valuation is shown
 in the paragraph headed re-valuation fee. 
 
 £
 60 
 
 
 
 
Returned
 monthly payment
 This fee is charged to cover the administration work involved
 when the Society has to deal with a recalled direct debit
 or returned cheque paid into your account. 
 
 £
 20 
 
 
 
 
Sale
 of property in possession
 This fee is charged by the Society to cover the administration
 costs in connection with the sale of the property which is
 taken into possession. A fee will also be charged for estate
 agency fees and legal fees. 
 
 £
 250 
 
 
 
 
 Secured
 Personal Loans
 These are loans which are secured on your property, and are
 usually for the purchase of a car, or perhaps a holiday. This
 fee is charged to cover the Society's costs for dealing with
 a secured personal loan. This fee is payable at the time you
 make your application. In England and Wales where you do not
 already have a loan with the Society you will have to instruct
 a solicitor to act on your behalf and will be required to
 pay the Solicitor's charges. In Scotland the legal work will
 be carried out by the Society's Solicitors and you will be
 notified of the costs you will be required to pay. There may
 be other additional charges, for example, if you have a second
 mortgage with another lender or advice is given to a third
 party. Please ask for details.
 
 £
 95 
 
 
 
 
Solicitors
 fees
 The Society will instruct a Solicitor to act for it in relation
 to completion of the mortgage, any transfer subject to mortgage
 and in some cases further loans. The Solicitor's fees will
 vary and are payable directly to the Solicitor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Timing
 of monthly payments
 All monthly mortgage payments and insurance premiums must
 be paid on or before the last day of the month in which they
 are due. Payments and premiums received after the last day
 of the month will mean your balance will be higher at the
 end of the month than it would otherwise have been. Interest
 will be calculated on the higher balance until we receive
 a cleared payment. If you pay by cash, direct debit, an internal
 transfer from a Cumberland investment account or a Cumberland
 cheque, we will treat your payment as cleared funds on the
 day you make the payment. If you pay by cheque from another
 organisation, we will treat your payment as cleared funds
 on the second Society working day after we receive the payment.
 For example, if you pay on a Monday, we will treat your funds
 as being cleared on the Wednesday. If you have chosen to pay
 by standing order, we will not receive your standing order
 payment until a few days after it has left your bank or building
 society account. So, you should make sure your bank or building
 society sends the standing order payment to us in enough time
 for it to reach us by the last day of the month. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer
 of equity
 This fee is charged by the Society if a loan and property
 are being transferred from joint names to a single name, single
 to joint or where a borrower is being replaced by another.
 There may be other circumstances when this fee may be charged.
 
 
 £
 90
 (£110 from
 1/06/02) 
 
 
 
 
Transfer
 of loan to/from interest only or capital and interest
 This fee is charged to cover the Society's administration
 costs for dealing with the transfer. 
 
 £
 50 
 
 
 
 
Valuation
 fees
 A valuation fee is normally charged when a new mortgage application
 is made. The amount charged is based on the purchase price/value
 of the property. The valuation fee is paid to the Society
 at the time you make your new mortgage application. Full details
 are shown in our leaflet "Mortgages with the Cumberland".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Changes
 to terms, conditions and charges
 If there are significant changes to any of the terms,
 conditions or charges affecting your loan you will be
 sent written details of these changes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your
 property will be required as security for your mortgage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 YOUR
 HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR
 OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 
 
 
 
