
BRISTOL & WEST
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Important: These Notes and the Consent appearing in Paragraph 2 must be read 
	prior to completing the application form and retained by you to read in 
	conjunction with the Offer of Loan in due course. You should read carefully the 
	application form before completing the Declaration. References in the notes to 
	'our', 'we' and 'us' shall mean Bristol & West plc and references to 'you' 
	shall mean the applicant(s).
	
	
	
- Offer of Loan
	
When we have decided that a loan may be made we will 
	issue an Offer of Loan. The Offer (including its terms and conditions) forms an 
	integral part of the mortgage and when the Solicitor requests the loan funds, he 
	will confirm that the terms and conditions of the Offer are acceptable to all 
	applicants and any guarantors. It is, therefore, important that all parties to 
	the mortgage check the Offer for correctness and inform the Solicitor that the 
	terms are acceptable. (In Scotland, references to 'mortgage' and 'Mortgage Deed' 
	are to the Standard Security in our favour).
	
	
- General Consent to Transfer
	
This is an important notice which we are required to bring to your attention: 
	
	
- You acknowledge that we have the legal power (incorporated in the mortgage 
	deed) to subsequently transfer the mortgage to another body which may not 
	necessarily be a bank or an associated body of a bank and for the avoidance of 
	doubt, you expressly and irrevocably consent to us exercising such power in our 
	absolute discretion.
	
- Any transfer under this Consent will only be made to a body which adheres to 
	the Statement of Practice relating to the transfer of mortgages drawn up under 
	the auspices of the Department of the Environment and the Treasury and adopted 
	by us (a copy of which is available on request).
	
- Any transfer under this General Consent will only be exercised on the basis 
	that we will retain control of the administration of the mortgage and in 
	particular:
	
	
- the setting of the mortgage interest rate in line with the provisions of our 
	Mortgage Deed;
	
- the conduct of relations with borrowers including those whose payments are 
	seriously in arrears.
	
- providing our performance is satisfactory we will exercise this control for 
	a minimum of one year.
	
- Any transfer under this General Consent will be on the basis that the 
	transferee may only subsequently transfer the mortgage on the above terms.
	
	
	
	
	
	
- Additional Security
	
Additional security in the form of a 
	mortgage indemnity policy is required by us where the loan exceeds 85% of the 
	valuation of the property, or the purchase price, whichever is the lower. The 
	mortgage indemnity policy is taken to cover the increased risk to us of making a 
	loan in excess of our normal limits. This type of policy should not be confused 
	with life or other forms of assurance. Its sole purpose is to provide us with 
	additional security. It is not a policy of insurance to protect borrowers 
	against falls in house price or against the consequences of their failure to 
	fulfil their obligations under the mortgage.
	
Understanding Mortgage Indemnity Insurance
	
It is sometimes difficult for borrowers to 
	understand the precise nature of mortgage indemnity insurance and how it affects 
	their continuing responsibilities.
The notes below are intended to explain 
	clearly the role played by mortgage indemnity insurance and indicate how it will 
	operate in the event of the borrower's property being repossessed and sold.
	
	
The Fundamental Principles Of Mortgage Indemnity Insurance
	
	
- It is taken out by us for our own additional security in the event that we 
	have to repossess and sell the property at a loss.
	
- It covers us for our losses on the sale of the property following 
	repossession; it does not cover you. 
	
- Notwithstanding the existence of a mortgage indemnity policy, you are still 
	responsible for repaying all the money borrowed from us under the mortgage.
	
- The cost is met by you in the form of a once only non-refundable fee 
	deducted from the loan funds. Some or all of this fee will be used to obtain 
	mortgage indemnity insurance. 
	
- We will only require you to meet the cost of the policy where we are lending 
	you more than 85% of the property valuation, or the purchase price (whichever is 
	the lower). However, the mortgage indemnity policy will give us cover for the 
	total amount lent in excess of 75% of the property valuation or purchase price 
	and this will be reflected in the cost of the premium.
	
- The benefit to you is that we are willing to lend more with the protection 
	of mortgage indemnity than we could prudently lend without it.
	
	
	
How We Can Claim Under The Mortgage Indemnity Policy
	
The first step for any borrower who is experiencing 
	difficulties in mortgage repayments or who is suffering as a result of negative 
	equity, should be to talk to us; there could be a number of options open to the 
	borrower.
	However if a borrower falls significantly behind with mortgage 
	repayments and we are obliged to repossess and sell the property, a claim could 
	be made by us under the mortgage indemnity policy. The amount we will seek to 
	claim from the insurer will be based on the difference between the sale price 
	and the amount outstanding on your mortgage - referred to as the 
	'shortfall'.
	The insurance policy will not always cover all of our losses and 
	in addition, the insurer has the right of 'subrogation' - in other words the 
	insurer, or we on the insurer's behalf, will look to the borrower to re-imburse 
	them for the full amount of the shortfall. Borrowers should remember that under 
	the terms of their mortgage with us they make a personal promise to repay all 
	the money owing under the mortgage. The existence of a mortgage indemnity policy 
	does not alter this obligation.
	
	
Remember - borrowers cannot avoid 
	responsibility for repaying all money owed under their mortgage by simply 
	handing the property back to us. Any advice that suggests that a mortgage 
	indemnity policy will mean borrowers do not have to repay any shortfall between 
	the sale price and the amount outstanding on the mortgage, is incorrect. The 
	insurer or we on their behalf, have 12 years in England and Wales and 6 years in 
	Scotland, in which to seek full recovery of the debt from the borrower. In these 
	circumstances a borrower's ability to obtain credit or a mortgage in the future 
	will be severely affected.
	Never let difficulties in meeting mortgage payments get out of hand - talk to us first.
	Having explained that mortgage 
	indemnity insurance is for our protection and not the borrower, we are genuinely 
	sympathetic towards borrowers who come and talk to us about any difficulties 
	they are experiencing, as early as possible. There are many ways in which the 
	burden of meeting mortgage repayments can be eased. For example, the period of 
	the mortgage could be altered to reduce the monthly amounts payable. Help may be 
	available from the DSS or the mortgage could be converted to interest only in 
	order to reduce the outgoing. For borrowers who find themselves unable to move 
	home because of negative equity, we have a special mortgage product that could 
	help.
	
Remember if you are experiencing difficulties in meeting your mortgage 
	repayments, talk to us as soon as possible.
	
	
- Legal and Mortgage Charges
	
You may require the services of a 
	solicitor to act in the purchase or remortgage of the property. We recommend 
	that you contact him/her as soon as possible. If your solicitor is on our 
	approved panel of solicitors, he/she may be able to act for us in this 
	transaction. We operate a restricted panel of sole practitioners. If you 
	instruct a sole practitioner, you should check with your branch or 
	administration centre to confirm that he/she may also act for us. You will be 
	responsible for all the legal charges in connection with the mortgage. The 
	Solicitor should be consulted at the outset for an estimate of the total costs 
	involved.
	We will have the right arising from the mortgage to make 
	administration charges on the happening of certain events and to debit these 
	charges to your account. Details of these charges are set out in our brochure 
	entitled 'A Guide To Mortgage Charges' which can be 
	obtained from your branch or administration centre.
	NB: Wherever the context 
	allows, 'Solicitor' also includes Licensed Conveyancers who are on our approved 
	panel.
	
	
- Monthly Payment and Initial Interest
	
When Monthly Payments Are Due
	Monthly payments are due in advance on the first of each month or 
	any other date in each month which we specify. The first payment that you will 
	be required to make to us will normally be on the 1st of the month following the 
	date on which we make the loan. However, where this date is after the 24th of 
	the month then the first payment due to be made will be on the 1st of the second 
	month after we make the loan.
	
	
The First Payment and Initial Interest
	The first payment due to us, will be made up of one normal 
	monthly payment (unless funds are advanced after the 24th of the month, in which 
	case two normal monthly payments will be required) together with any interest 
	due from the day the loan is made to the end of the month in which completion 
	takes place. This interest amount is referred to as Initial Interest and is 
	collected in this manner because, in common with the majority of lenders, 
	payment calculations use whole months to calculate the payment due.
	You need 
	to ensure that you allow for all these amounts after you have received the loan 
	because we will collect this by one single direct debit on the first date due. 
	Thereafter the direct debit will collect the normal monthly payment on the 1st 
	of each following month. For the purpose of charging interest, the date we make 
	the loan means the day after the date of our cheque for the loan, if we pay by 
	cheque, or the day after the date of an electronic transfer of funds, if we pay 
	by transfer. Our normal policy is to pay the loan by 
	cheque.
	
CONTRACTUAL / ACTUAL REPAYMENTS
	There are two types of payment quoted in your Offer of Loan. The Contractual
	Payment is calculated as a capital and interest payment figure based on the
	current standard variable rate, whereas the Actual Payment takes into account
	any fixed interest rate or interest-only concessions, as stated in our
	Residential Mortgage Conditions.
	
	
- Leasehold Securities
	
Our minimum requirements in respect of leasehold properties are as follows:- 
	
	
- Houses and Bungalows
	
	
- The remaining term of the lease must be at least 70 years from the day we 
	make the loan.
	
- The lease must not contain a forfeiture clause upon the bankruptcy of the 
	lessee which would entitle the landlord to terminate the lease. 
	
- If the lease contains a clause which could result in a substantial increase 
	in the ground rent or which is considered unduly onerous, then full details 
	should be referred to us immediately as it could adversely affect the value of 
	the property. 
	
- If you own or are about to own the freehold as well as the leasehold 
	interest in the property, we will require a mortgage over both interests. 
	
	
	
- Flats and Maisonettes
	For Flats and Maisonettes the following requirements must be fulfilled in addition to those above. 
	
	
- The lease must contain provisions giving adequate mutual rights of support.
	
- There must be satisfactory arrangements for maintenance and repair of the 
	common structure, foundations, roof, main walls, common parts and services. In	
	the case of large blocks, maintenance must be affectively controlled by the 
	landlord or a viable management company in which the lessees have an enforceable 
	interest.
	
	
	
	
NB. Our Solicitors are required to advise us if 
	these requirements are not satisfied, or if there are any unsatisfactory or 
	unduly onerous provisions in the lease.
	Where the lease provides for the 
	payment of ground rent, maintenance charges and other outgoings, such payments 
	must be made punctually by you. This is a requirement of your mortgage as well 
	as being an obligation contained in the lease. Failure to comply with this 
	requirement will entitle us to exercise our rights and remedies under the 
	mortgage including the right to debit your mortgage account to pay the lease 
	outgoings. Similar requirements apply in relation to properties held on long 
	leases in Scotland.
	
	
- Insurance
	
Special Mortgage Products
	There may be certain mortgage products that we offer from time to time that require specific 
	insurance products to be taken out as part of that mortgage. You should refer to 
	your product literature and Offer of Loan if you are unsure in this 
	respect.
	
Buildings Insurance
	We require that all properties mortgaged 
	to us will be insured in our name as well as yours. This can be done in one of 
	several ways:
	Arranging It Through Us
	We will be pleased to arrange 
	cover for you. This would be arranged on an index linked basis for the amount 
	recommended by the Valuer when he/she values the property.
	Arranging It Yourself
	Alternatively, you may be entitled to arrange your own insurance 
	cover with an insurance company of your choice subject to the following 
	conditions: 
	
	
- the company and the policy must be approved by us in writing before completion;
	
- we must be jointly insured with you; 
	
	If you wish to arrange your 
	own insurance you should advise your branch or administration centre when you 
	complete your Application Form. If you arrange your own buildings insurance a fee of £25 
	is payable to Bristol & West to cover additional administration costs.
	Minimum Cover Required
	The minimum amount of insurance cover required is the full cost of reinstatement i.e. the 
	full rebuilding cost of the property including an appropriate allowance for the 
	cost of demolition, site clearance, surveyor's and legal fees and the extra cost 
	of rebuilding to comply with Local Authority requirements.
	Leasehold Property
	Leasehold properties where the insurance is controlled by the 
	Landlord, will normally not be insured through our agency. However, we will 
	require full details of the policy to be lodged with us and our interest noted 
	on the original policy.
	Contents Insurance
	We are able to offer special schemes to cover the household insurance needs of our customers. Further 
	details are available on request from your branch or administration 
	centre.
	Payment Protection Insurance
	We are also able to offer a 
	scheme to provide cover for your mortgage payments during sickness and 
	redundancy. This product is only available for a period of three months after we 
	make the loan. You will normally pay your premiums by direct debit, once the 
	policy has been set up. A brochure providing full details of the extent of cover 
	and terms and conditions is available from your branch office or administration 
	centre.
	Payment of Insurance Premium
	Insurance premiums for 
	buildings and/or contents may be paid together with your monthly mortgage 
	payment due on the 1st of each month, if you choose to pay monthly. 
	Alternatively, you may pay annually by direct debit. If, however, you decide to 
	pay monthly, we charge a handling fee of 5% of the premium. You should also be 
	aware that the first insurance premium due, whether it be annually or monthly, 
	will be deducted from the loan funds before the loan is made.
	As you are committed to purchase upon exchange of contracts (and normally on conclusion of 
	missives in Scotland), it is suggested that the policy/policies are put in force 
	on exchange (or conclusion).
	
	
- Loan Repayment Methods
	
We will allow you to arrange your 
	mortgage on a repayment, endowment, personal pension plan, ISA or (in limited 
	circumstances) an interest only basis. We may require that life or other forms 
	of assurance cover be in force for the full amount owed under the mortgage.
	Should you require advice, we will be pleased to consider your individual 
	life or other assurance needs and you should contact your local branch or 
	administration centre.
	If you already have adequate life or other forms of 
	assurance or intend to arrange cover separately, written evidence confirming 
	this will be required by us.
	We may require a legal assignment of your life policies as a condition of the loan.
	In all cases, where there are two or 
	more applicants, the policy should be arranged to cover you jointly. As you are 
	committed to purchase upon exchange of contracts (and normally on conclusion of 
	missives in Scotland) it is suggested that the policy/policies are put in force 
	on exchange (or conclusion).
	It is vitally important that you make and 
	continue to maintain suitable arrangements to repay the loan and not just the 
	interest chargeable on the loan. If you break any term of an agreement with us 
	that you may pay interest only, for example, you fail to maintain a suitable 
	endowment policy taken out to repay the loan), we may give notice: 
	
	
- putting an end to the agreement for payment of interest only; 
	
- specifying a new monthly payment worked out to cover repayment of the loan 
	and any other loan as well as interest by the end of the mortgage period; and 
	
- changing the rate of interest to our standard variable rate, if the interest 
	rate is different.
	
	If you do not take out or maintain suitable 
	arrangements to repay the loan we will still require you to repay the full 
	amount owed under the mortgage at the end of the mortgage period even if the 
	maturity value of your chosen policy is not enough to pay off the mortgage. It 
	is your responsibility to ensure that at all times an adequate method is in 
	place to repay the amount owed under the mortgage. We will however, remind you 
	annually of the need to make sure that an adequate repayment method is in place. 
	
- Charging of Interest
	
	
	
- Interest Will Be Charged
	
	
- In the first year on the full amount of any money lent to or becoming owing 
	by you from the date on which it was lent or became owing to the end of the year 
	or to the end of the month in which sums you owe are repaid. 
	
- In any subsequent year on the full amount owed under the mortgage (whether 
	principal, interest or otherwise) on the last date of the preceding year and on 
	any further sum lent to or becoming owing from you during the year as from the 
	date the money was lent or became owing under the mortgage until the end of the 
	year or to the end of the month in which you repay the loan. NB: For the above 
	purpose, the date of the loan is the day after the date of our cheque for the 
	loan, if we pay by cheque or the day after the date of an electronic transfer of 
	funds, if we pay by transfer. A 'year' is the twelve months ended 31st March or 
	such other date as our Board of Directors may from time to time approve. 
	
	
	
- Repayment Mortgages
	The mortgage payment is so calculated that it 
	will repay the total loan and interest within the term quoted in the Offer of 
	Loan, on the assumption that Monthly Payments are made on the due dates. 
	
- Interest Only Mortgages
	You are required to pay interest only on 
	the loan, the capital being repaid to us upon the maturity of the life assurance 
	policies from your own resources at the end of the mortgage period. The 
	appropriate premium payments must be made by you to the Insurance Company on the 
	due date. We will not wish to receive the policy document. It must be retained 
	safely by you and you should ensure that the correct cover has been provided. 
	Please carefully read Section 9 above. 
	
- Rate of Interest
	We have the power to vary our Standard Variable 
	Rate as set out in our Residential Mortgage Conditions. Any such change will be 
	communicated to you within twenty-eight days of the decision to change the rate.	
	
	
	
- Retentions
	
We may retain loan funds until such time as the 
	terms and conditions of the Offer of Loan have been complied with. When we 
	require such a retention, interest is charged only on the amount released to you 
	and the monthly payment is also calculated on this figure.
The retention 
	monies will be released to you once we have satisfied ourselves that the 
	necessary works (including unmade roads) as stipulated in your Offer of Loan 
	have been carried out. It may be necessary for the work to be inspected by our 
	valuer and any re-inspection fee will be deducted from the loan funds which will 
	be issued to your Solicitor.
	In the event of any arrears of interest or 
	monthly payments arising on the loan, we reserve the right to offset the 
	retention monies against any such arrears. 
	
	
- Redemption charges
	
	
- If we issue an Offer of Loan to you, please check it carefully to see if any 
	redemption charges are payable in the event that you pay off the loan or any 
	part of it early 
	
- If the Offer does not contain any redemption charge conditions, you will 
	still be obliged to pay us a fee to cover our reasonable administration costs 
	(which may include a Deeds Release fee) if the loan or any part of it is repaid 
	early. A reasonable administration fee is also payable when the mortgage period 
	comes to an end. 
	
- If you subsequently wish to apply to transfer from one mortgage product to 
	another, we have the right to decline your application. 
	However, if we accept your application, we may insist as a condition of the transfer that you 
	pay us transfer and administration charges. The amount of the transfer charge 
	may be equivalent to the redemption charge set out in your Offer of Loan. 
	
	
	
	
- Annual Statement
	
An annual statement will be issued to you in 
	April, showing the capital balance outstanding and all transactions made on the 
	account during the previous financial year to 31st March. The statement also 
	shows whether the mortgage payments are in advance or in arrears.
	
	
- Portability
	
From time to time, we offer special mortgage products, 
	a feature of which may be the option to transfer the rate of interest (usually a 
	fixed rate) from one mortgage to another, within a defined time-frame. The fixed 
	interest rate is only transferrable on the outstanding portion of the loan to 
	which the rate was originally applied. Full details are available upon request.
	
	
- Duties
	
By signing the Mortgage Deed you will be agreeing to take 
	on a number of duties. These duties include the obligation to repay any 
	shortfall arising on the sale of the property by us.
	Full details of these 
	duties are contained within our Residential Mortgage Conditions which will be 
	sent to your Solicitor at the time the Offer of Loan is issued.
	Your Solicitor should explain these duties to you prior to completion of the 
	mortgage.
	Failure to observe the duties set out in the conditions entitles us 
	to call in the entire amount owed under the mortgage.
	
	
- Valuation or Survey?
	
Mortgage Valuation
	This report is a basic inspection prepared for Bristol & West plc, it answers only 
	Bristol & West's questions concerning the appropriate security for your 
	loan.
	You cannot rely on it to answer the questions which concern your 
	personal interests and you must obtain a more detailed survey before entering 
	into a legal commitment to purchase. A copy of the report is provided to you for 
	information purposes only.
	Two forms of survey exist to help home buyers. They are:- 
	
	
- The Home Buyer Survey and Valuation
	This report is in a standard 
	format and is designed specifically as an economy service. It is intended only 
	for houses, flats or bungalows which are conventional in type and construction 
	and apparently in reasonable condition. It focuses on essential defects and 
	problems which are urgent or significant and which do have an effect on the 
	value of the property, although it includes much other valuable information. If 
	the surveyor does not consider the property suitable for this type of report, he 
	or she will contact you but will continue with the mortgage valuation inspection 
	instructed by Bristol & West. 
	
- The Building Survey (formerly called a Structural Survey)
This 
	report is suitable for all residential properties and provides a full picture of 
	their construction and condition. It is likely to be needed if the property is, 
	for example, of unusual construction, is dilapidated or has been extensively 
	altered or where a major conversion or renovation is planned. It is usually 
	tailored to your individual requirements. Report includes extensive technical 
	information on construction and materials, as well as details of the whole range 
	of defects, major to minor. 
	
	Our fee scale for the Mortgage Valuation 
	and Home Buyer reports is listed in a separate leaflet (Your Guide to Mortgage 
	Charges - MO313). There are no standard fees for a Building Survey and it is 
	important that you agree, both a fee and Conditions of Engagement before 
	proceeding if it is your intention to instruct a Building Survey. Bristol & 
	West plc will still require a Mortgage Valuation Report if you chose a Home 
	Buyer Report or Building Survey. It may be possible for a Building Survey to be 
	carried out by the Surveyor whom we instruct to carry out the Mortgage Valuation 
	Report, with some saving in overall costs. If you chose this option, you must 
	instruct the Surveyor yourself in respect of the Building Survey element. It is 
	vital that the Surveyor obtains your precise instructions within the Terms of 
	Engagement before inspecting the property, in order to avoid separate visits.
	
	
- Guarantors
	
Where we decide to accept someone as guarantor then by 
	signing the mortgage deed that the guarantor may become liable instead of, or as 
	well as, the borrower whose debt to us he/she is guaranteeing. The guarantor's 
	liability to us will be limited to the amount of the original loan we make to 
	the borrower, any further loans made to the borrower with the guarantor's 
	written consent and interest and costs as provided in our Residential Mortgage 
	Conditions. The guarantor should receive independent legal advice before signing 
	the mortgage deed.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
