
Apply online for your Post Haste Easy Access account
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please let us know if we can improve the services 
 we offer you. We will always listen carefully and respond to your needs 
 to ensure that you feel welcome at all of our branches. If you have 
 a disability we will find the best way to provide you with any of our 
 services. Customer Advisers are always happy to spend time with you 
 discussing our products and services and there are private interview 
 facilities available if you prefer. All our branches can let you have 
 copies of our documents in larger print which are in plain English. 
 We provide microphones and audio loop systems at all our branches and 
 magnifying glasses are available at our counter positions.
 
 The Society's Board and Staff are committed to providing a first class 
 customer service as a mutual organisation ensuring that its members 
 are rewarded for their loyalty. The Society complies with the Banking 
 Code of Practice, copies of which are available on request from any 
 Branch or Principal Office, Upper Bond Street, Hinckley, Leicestershire 
 LE10 1DG. Telephone 01455 251234 or via our internet website. 
 www.hrbs.co.uk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Availability 
 of our products and interest rates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Website
 
 You can visit our website at any time on www.hrbs.co.uk to obtain 
 details of all accounts available from us together with up to date interest 
 rates on open and closed issues together with old rates which we will 
 show for a minimum period of one month. Rates will be updated on the 
 web page within 3 working days of any change. The site will contain 
 a reference to the Bank of England Base Rate also for reference purposes 
 if appropriate.
 
 Branches 
 
 All our branches offer our products and services and our staff will 
 be pleased to help you choose a suitable product or service to meet 
 your needs.
 
 Postal Account 
 
 We offer a postal account. Details can be obtained on the internet or 
 by telephone or by visiting any branch.
 
 Telephone 
 
 You may telephone our telephone helpline number 01455 251234 to obtain 
 details of any account including up to date interest rates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Customer 
 services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We 
 aim to provide high standards of service. However, there may be occasions 
 when you feel that you may have a complaint in which case please ask 
 our staff who will tell you how to make a complaint using our complaints 
 system. Whilst we hope we can resolve any problems through these internal 
 procedures we are also a member of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
 which customers can refer a complaint after the internal procedures 
 have been exhausted. Details of the Financial Ombudsman Service will 
 be provided on request from any Branch or from Principal Office. The 
 standards we set meet those that are required by the Financial Services 
 Authority. You can check these standards by telephoning the Financial 
 Services Authority on 020 7676 1000.
 
 We will respond to your initial complaint in two working days and we 
 will finalise any investigation within one month and notify you of our 
 findings. In the event that the complaint takes longer to investigate 
 we will send you a holding response in four weeks and a final response 
 no later than eight weeks from receipt of your complaint.
 
 If you think there has been an entry made in your passbook which seems 
 to be wrong, please tell us as soon as possible so we can resolve the 
 problem.
 
 In order to ensure we provide a high level of service please let us 
 know if you change your name or address or telephone number in order 
 that we can update our records and communicate with you.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Marketing 
 of services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To 
 help you keep up to date with new products and services the Society 
 may, from time to time, inform you of additional services or products 
 which are available. Should you wish not to be informed of our additional 
 services or products you can let us know at any time at one of our branches. 
 Your application form has boxes you can tick to prevent us from making 
 marketing approaches to you. Without your consent we will not pass your 
 details to any company, including a company in our group, for marketing 
 purposes.
 
 We will remind you at least once every three years that you can ask 
 not to receive this information. This reminder will be contained in 
 the Summary Financial Statement.
 
 Under the Data Protection Act you have a right of access to see your 
 personal records held by us. We observe strict confidentiality about 
 customers' personal and financial affairs, and will not pass any information 
 to third parties without our members' consent other than in four exceptional 
 areas;
 
 i. where we are legally compelled to do 
 so;
 
 ii. where there is a duty to the public 
 to disclose; 
 
 iii. where our interest requires disclosure; 
 or 
 
 iv. where disclosure is made at your request 
 or with your consent.
 
 Data held by us on our systems will be held during the life of the account 
 and may be held for six years after it is closed. You can always let 
 us know if the information held by us has changed so that we can ensure 
 that the information we hold is up to date and accurate. If you require 
 information on your file please write to the Society at its Principal 
 Office.
 
 If we record telephone conversations we will tell you at the beginning 
 of the call.
 
 The Society's Money Planning Service is at your disposal for investment 
 advice. Please contact your local branch for an appointment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investor 
 protection scheme
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hinckley 
 and Rugby Building Society is a participant in the Financial Services 
 Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets 
 Act 2000.
 
 Payments under the Scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that 
 is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits 
 in the Society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, 
 including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories 
 of shares and deposits are not covered, for example deferred shares 
 - permanent interest bearing shares. Although most shares and deposits 
 are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further 
 details are available on request from the Society.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If 
 you change your mind
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If, within 15 calendar days of investing your 
 first payment with us (excluding public holidays) you consider you have 
 made a mistake then, upon being notified in writing or by e-mail, the 
 Society will help you switch accounts or arrange to reimburse your money 
 (if cleared funds) and will waive any notice period or interest charges. 
 The rate of interest paid will be that applicable to the High Rise Instant 
 Access account. (Please note that this will not apply to fixed rate 
 accounts.) We will assist you in moving accounts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Membership 
 rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 
 registered address is the address at which we shall communicate with 
 you. This address must be completed in the application form and must 
 be your residential address . It must be the same address given to the 
 Society for all accounts with the Society.
 
 The first named account holder in the application form will be the Society's 
 member with investor membership rights. These additional rights include 
 voting and rights to receive notices of meetings. If the account changes 
 to a different first named account holder that means those membership 
 rights cease for the first named account holder on the changeover. The 
 new first named account holder will commence their investing membership 
 rights from the date of the record being amended at the Society.
 
 The member should be the person on whose behalf money is being invested 
 eg the beneficiary under a trust document or will, the donor (the "giver") 
 of a power of attorney, a child where the parent acts as nominee (ie 
 as an agent for the child). 
 
 There is one exception to this which is where it is an organisation, 
 eg a club, society or charity where the member must be the nominee/controller 
 of the account as agent for the organisation. The reason for this is 
 that the member with the Society must be an individual. In this case 
 the organisation must be made aware that the membership rights are with 
 the controller. If that person changes then the membership rights cease 
 when the Society's records are changed and new membership rights will 
 start again.
 
 The first named account holder is the Representative Joint Shareholder. 
 It is important to remember that this person can only have membership 
 rights once. If that person is also a Representative Joint Borrower 
 or operates an account for an organisation, membership rights exist 
 only once.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Address 
 for statement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you represent an organisation or are a trustee 
 you can ask us to send the account statement to you and not to the Society's 
 member. This will not amend the communication address or registered 
 address for receipt of all membership documents which will be sent to 
 the member.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Terms 
 and Conditions that apply to all our accounts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i. 
 These terms and conditions apply to your account with the Society. Please 
 read them carefully along with the account literature for the account 
 you chose to open. This will contain special conditions that apply to 
 each particular account. In order for you to compare our interest rates 
 and account types these are set out in our Interest Rate Leaflet. The 
 Society's Rules for the time being also apply to you as a member of 
 the Society. Copies of the Rules can be obtained from any Branch or 
 Principal Office.
 
 ii. You must note that these terms and conditions 
 apply unless the conditions in an account that you open are in conflict, 
 in which case it will be the special condition in that particular account 
 that will apply.
 
 iii. The Society shall have absolute discretion 
 without giving any reason to refuse to issue a share to any person.
 
 1. General
 
 These conditions are the Hinckley and Rugby Building Society Investment 
 Terms and Conditions and will be described below as "the Conditions".
 
 The Conditions apply to all accounts with Hinckley and Rugby Building 
 Society unless they are excluded by, or inconsistent with, special conditions 
 for particular accounts.
 
 In the Conditions (i) the words "the Society" "we" "us" "our" and "ourselves" 
 refer to Hinckley and Rugby Building Society; (ii) the words "you" "your" 
 and "yourselves" refer to holders of accounts.
 
 2. Account opening - Evidence of Identity
 
 Before you open an account we will give you a clear summary explaining 
 the key features of the products or services you are interested in, 
 unless you specify a particular product or service.
 
 We will ask you for whatever evidence we reasonably require to enable 
 us to the identify the person wishing to open the account. (Please refer 
 to our account literature for the evidence we will require from you). 
 You will not become a member of the Society until the identification 
 procedure has been completed to the satisfaction of ourselves. If satisfactory 
 identification has not been received by us you will be notified and 
 your investment will be returned to you.
 
 The address that is provided in the application form is the registered 
 address for the member and will not be changed until it is amended in 
 the Society's records.
 
 3. Interest Rates
 
 When you open an account we will tell you the interest rate on your 
 account and how the interest will be paid or deducted. This is also 
 available in the Interest Rate Leaflet given to you at the time the 
 account is opened. Interest rates are available on our website and telephone 
 helpline and by asking staff. In addition you will be told how interest 
 rates will be changed (see below).
 
 4. Interest Rate Changes
 
 4.1 Subject to any special condition relating to interest rate changes 
 which covers a particular account, we may change at any time the rate 
 of interest to be paid on your investment. Variations may include changes 
 which:
 
 i. mean we do not pay interest when the 
 amount in the account is below a particular level; 
 
 ii. introduce or alter "banding" provisions 
 under which we pay different rates depending upon the amount in the 
 account from time to time. 
 
 4.2 We may change at any time the rate of interest to be paid on your 
 investment if we reasonably believe that the change is needed for any 
 of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing 
 at the time or those which are expected to apply in the near future) 
 - 
 
 i. to reflect general market conditions 
 (including interest rates generally or the terms on which similar accounts 
 are offered by other building societies, banks or anyone else providing 
 financial services);
 
 ii. so that we can compete more effectively 
 with other building societies, banks or anyone else providing financial 
 services;
 
 iii. our costs have increased or are expected 
 to do so;
 
 iv. to maintain our financial strength for 
 the benefit of all our customers;
 
 v. to take account of changes in the law, 
 decisions of an Ombudsman, regulator or similar person, or any code 
 of practice with which we intend to comply.
 
 We can also change the rate of interest for any other valid reason where 
 we reasonably believe change is appropriate and we will inform you at 
 the earliest opportunity.
 
 4.3 The interest rates which will apply to your accounts may change 
 from time to time. When we change the interest rates, we will tell you 
 about the changes for:
 
 (a) Accounts mainly run through Branches
 
 within 30 days, by letter, e-mail or other personal notice; or 
 
 
 within 3 working days of the change
 
 
 
 
 by 
 prominent notices in Branches; and 
 
 
 
 
 by 
 placing notices in the two daily newspapers we usually use. 
 
 
 
 
 To 
 find out which newspapers we advertise in please contact a Branch 
 or Principal Office. These newspapers reflect the readership of 
 our customers. To help you compare rates more easily, our notices 
 will state clearly the old and new interest rates; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 by 
 such other means as may be set out in terms applicable to your share 
 account; and 
 
 
 
(b) 
 Accounts we do not mainly run through our Branches
 
 Within 30 days by letter, e-mail or other personal notice; or 
 
 
 by such other personal means as may be set out in terms applicable 
 to your share account.
 
 5. How we calculate interest
 
 We calculate interest on the sum you invest from the day after we 
 receive it up to and including the day before you make a withdrawal; 
 but this will not apply where special conditions for particular accounts 
 provide otherwise. We will give you a full explanation of how interest 
 is calculated if you request this from us.
 
 From time to time, we offer new savings and investment accounts. If 
 you have a savings account, other than a fixed-rate account, which has 
 been "superseded" because:
 
 new accounts are no longer opened by us; or
 
 the account is not actively promoted;
 
 we will either:
 
 (a) keep the interest rate on the superseded 
 account at the same level as an account with similar features from the 
 current range; or
 
 (b) switch the superseded account to an 
 account with similar features from the current range.
 
 Examples of similar features include notice periods, types of withdrawals, 
 numbers of free withdrawals, how money is paid into and drawn out of 
 the account.
 
 This means that the interest rate on your account will always be at 
 least as good as the interest rate on an account with similar features 
 from the current range.
 
 Where there is no account with "similar features" we will, 
 within 30 days of your account becoming superseded, contact you to:
 
 tell you that the account is superseded;
 
 tell you about our other accounts; and
 
 help you to switch accounts without any notice period and without 
 any additional charges.
 
 Rates on our superseded issues are always available at our branches.
 
 6. How you can receive interest
 
 You can generally have your interest
 
 i. credited to the account;
 
 ii. paid to your bank account;
 
 iii. transferred to another account with 
 us.
 
 This will not apply where special conditions for particular accounts 
 provide otherwise.
 
 7. Charges on accounts
 
 7.1 We can make reasonable charges for items relating to the day 
 to day running of your account. These charges are transactional charges 
 and reflect the expenses we incur and the cost of staff time and the 
 use of our office/computer facilities. We will tell you about these 
 charges on our Interest Rate Leaflet if they are applicable. Our website 
 and telephone helpline will also include them. For charges that do not 
 apply to the daily running of an account for example a duplicate statement, 
 unpaid cheque or direct debit, stopping a cheque, telegraphic transfer, 
 these will be provided to you at any time on request and in any event 
 before the service is provided to you (unless it is a charge for an 
 unpaid cheque). These are also provided in the Interest Rate Leaflet 
 for your information purposes and reflect the costs of our staff time 
 and the use of our office/computer facilities. 
 
 7.2 We can change the charges we make at any time. Changes may include 
 the abolition of, or amendment to, existing charges, or the introduction 
 of new charges and may be made if we reasonably believe that the change 
 is needed for any of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances 
 existing at the time or those which are expected to apply in the near 
 future) -
 
 i. to reflect general market conditions 
 and standards (including the levels of charges of other building societies, 
 banks or anyone else providing financial services);
 
 ii. so we can compete more effectively with 
 other building societies, banks and anyone else providing financial 
 services;
 
 iii. our costs have increased or are expected 
 to do so;
 
 iv. to maintain our financial strength for 
 the benefit of all our customers;
 
 v. to take account of any changes in the 
 law, decisions of an Ombudsman, regulator or similar person, or any 
 code of practice with which we intend to comply.
 
 We can also change the charges for any other valid reason where we reasonably 
 believe change is appropriate.
 
 7.3 If we introduce or increase a day to day transactional charge we 
 will inform you personally by giving you no less than 30 days notice 
 by letter, statement or e-mail before the charge takes effect. 
 
 7.4 If we introduce or increase any other charge that is not a transactional 
 charge, i.e. a charge that you do not use on a day to day basis, then 
 we will inform you before you use the service or at any time you ask. 
 These charges will be updated and will appear in the Interest Rate Leaflet.
 
 7.5 If you have a fixed term account the product leaflet will detail 
 any extra charges for early withdrawal if permissible under the account 
 terms.
 
 8. Minimum and Maximum opening investments/holdings
 
 The minimum and maximum opening investments and holdings are contained 
 in the special conditions for particular accounts. Subject to these 
 the maximum total investment in an account or by an individual is £300,000. 
 The minimum opening balance in any account must be maintained at all 
 times. If your balance drops beneath this minimum amount we will give 
 you the opportunity to make up the difference. If you fail to do this 
 within a month the account will be closed by us and your investment 
 returned to you.
 
 9. Withdrawals/Payments
 
 Withdrawals are subject to the special conditions for particular 
 accounts and to any branch/agency withdrawal limits which we reasonably 
 impose. Any cash withdrawal is limited to £300 for security purposes 
 subject to account conditions.
 
 You are not permitted to make withdrawals:
 
 i. if they would cause the account to become 
 overdrawn. This includes any additional interest due to the Society 
 that you must pay as a result of your not giving the required notice 
 prior to any withdrawal. If an account is overdrawn you will cease to 
 be a shareholding member.
 
 ii. from a passbook, unless you produce 
 the passbook at the time of the withdrawal.
 
 In exceptional circumstances, we may have to suspend your right to make 
 withdrawals from your account for a period, and we may not be able to 
 give you prior notice of this.
 
 Without notice we may limit at any time the amount which may be withdrawn 
 in respect of any account if we reasonably consider it is necessary 
 in order to protect the interests of the membership of the Society as 
 a whole.
 
 We will not send cheques to third parties in the post, this must be 
 undertaken by you.
 
 Any cheque that you require us to draw to pay a third party cannot be 
 stopped unless we have clear evidence of fraud.
 
 We do not permit withdrawals to be paid out of your investment account 
 by Direct Debit or Standing Order.
 
 Three working days must be allowed before withdrawals can be made against 
 a bank credit which is transmitted through the Banking Automated Clearing 
 System (BACS).
 
 If you send a cheque through the post it will help to prevent fraud 
 if you clearly write the name of the person you are paying the cheque 
 to and put extra information about them on the cheque. For example, 
 if you write a cheque to Hinckley and Rugby Building Society please 
 ensure that the account name of the person to whom you wish to pay it 
 to is included on the cheque.
 
 10. Transaction Limits
 
 To reduce queuing time and to maintain our high level of customer service 
 please note our limits on certain types of transactions.
 
 Receipts per day per customer
 
 a maximum of 10 cheque deposits
 
 a maximum of £3,000 in notes deposited
 
 a maximum of £20 in coin deposited (all properly bagged - preferably 
 no more than 5 bags).
 
 The Society will continue to accept coin deposits above these limits 
 for charities and Young Savers but you will be asked to help us to help 
 the rest of our customers by counting and bagging your change in advance 
 and avoiding peak times if possible.
 
 Withdrawals per day per customer
 
 a maximum of 5 withdrawals.
 
 11. Uncleared Cheques etc
 
 You will not normally be permitted to withdraw money against uncleared 
 cheques. 10 working days must be allowed before withdrawals can be made 
 against a cheque after we have received it from you. Faster clearance 
 of cheques is available on payment of a special clearance fee set out 
 in the Interest Rate Leaflet. This service is not available when opening 
 an account. However, we are dependent on the banking clearing system 
 and cannot guarantee the period in which the cheque will clear.
 
 We will not accept out of date cheques. A cheque is usually valid for 
 six months from the date shown. However Post Office and Giro cheques 
 are only valid for three months.
 
 12. When you or we wish to close your account
 
 The notice period and other provisions saying what happens when 
 you wish to close an account are contained in the special conditions 
 for particular accounts.
 
 We can repay to you all or part of your investment at any time, without 
 giving any reason, after giving you at least one month's notice, except 
 where the investment has been accepted for a fixed term which has not 
 expired or there are exceptional circumstances, eg, fraud. You can close 
 your account at any time, without giving any reason, after giving any 
 notice required by the special conditions applying to the account, except 
 where the investment has been accepted for a fixed term which has not 
 expired.
 
 Where we make the repayment to you in person, or by post to you and 
 the repayment is of the full amount in the account, you will have no 
 further right or interest in the account.
 
 13. Account information/statements/interest rate comparisons
 
 We will give you account information as promptly as we can whenever 
 you ask for it.
 
 We will send out statements of account annually (usually February) for 
 all accounts with balances of £100 or more (unless it is a fixed-rate 
 account) and for all Flying Start accounts.
 
 To help you compare interest rates on all our savings and investment 
 accounts more easily, we will send you, at least once a year, a summary 
 of these products and the current interest rates unless the account 
 has less than £100 in it. This summary will also include:
 
 superseded accounts clearly marked;
 
 the names of the newspapers we usually use to notify interest 
 rate changes;
 
 our telephone help line numbers; and
 
 our Internet web site address.
 
 In addition, we will also tell you the different interest rates which 
 have applied to the account during the year unless you have received 
 personal notices of interest rate changes on your account which will 
 have been sent to you in respect of accounts which are not mainly run 
 through our branches, for example Post Haste.
 
 14. Taxes
 
 Payments of interest (or otherwise) made by us on an account will 
 be subject to any taxes which affect the payment.
 
 15. Joint accounts/Trust accounts
 
 The following provisions apply to joint accounts/trust accounts 
 (some of the provisions being contained in our Rules - see below):
 
 i. Only the account holder whose name appears 
 first in our records ("the Representative Joint Shareholder") will obtain 
 any membership rights (eg the right to receive notices of meetings) 
 arising from the account holding;
 
 ii. Condition 15 (i) is subject to rights 
 given to second-named joint shareholders under any Act of Parliament;
 
 iii. Joint shareholders can choose the order 
 in which their names appear in our records and can later change their 
 minds. Any amendment made is effected when our records are changed;
 
 iv. Joint shareholders can choose whether 
 account withdrawals are to be made on the signature of one holder (in 
 which case all the funds can be withdrawn by that account holder in 
 the account) or all holders and can later change their minds. Any amendment 
 made is effected when our records are changed;
 
 v. For the purpose of this condition (and 
 for certain Inland Revenue returns) we will treat joint account holders 
 (but not trustees or nominees) as being entitled to the sum invested 
 in the account in equal shares. The Society will not accept accounts 
 where money is held in different shareholding interests (The Society 
 Rules - 4 (6));
 
 vi. On proof of the death of any joint account 
 holder, the survivor or survivors will be the only person or persons 
 recognised by us as having any ownership of or interest in the account 
 and the survivor or survivors shall be entitled, subject to these terms, 
 to operate the account on the same terms;
 
 vii. We do not have to recognise the interest 
 or claim of any person other than the account holder(s) in respect of 
 money held in any account, nor will we be liable in any way for failing 
 to recognise such interest or claim, except as required by law;
 
 viii. If the relationship on a joint account 
 ceases you must inform us if the account is to be closed or you wish 
 one name to remain on the account only;
 
 ix. We may freeze the account if we are 
 made aware that there is a dispute in relation to the funds held in 
 the account;
 
 x. We will send to joint account holders 
 who live at different addresses separate statements if we are requested 
 to do so at no additional cost.
 
 16. Transfers
 
 You may, subject to the conditions applying to your account and to our 
 prior approval, transfer your investment to another person on payment 
 to us of any fee which we may decide from time to time. No transfer 
 will be valid unless made in a form approved by us and until registered 
 in our records. We may refuse to permit such a transfer without giving 
 any reason.
 
 17. The Society's Rules
 
 If the Conditions apply to your account you will (except where the 
 account is a deposit account) be a member of the Society and be bound 
 by our Rules; but the Conditions or any relevant special conditions 
 that apply to a particular account will apply where inconsistent with 
 the Rules. (A summary of some of the key provisions of the Rules is 
 set out in the Appendix at the end of these Conditions.)
 
 18. Deposit Accounts
 
 If you have a deposit account, you are not a member of the Society 
 and do not have any voting rights. You are, however, bound under the 
 terms of your account by some of our Rules, which include Rules 4(4) 
 to (7), Rule 5, Rule 6(1) to (3), Rule 8(4) and Rule 9(5), Rule 12(5) 
 and Rule 45 with any necessary consequential amendments being made together 
 with these Conditions except those that relate to membership rights.
 
 19. Unclaimed Balances
 
 If -
 
 i. you cannot be traced after reasonable 
 enquiry, and
 
 ii. either -
 
 (a) for a period of 3 years you have made 
 no payment to or withdrawal from your account and the amount in that 
 account is less than £100, or
 
 (b) for a period of 5 years you have made 
 no payment to or withdrawal from your account,
 
 we may decide to close that account and the money in it will be retained 
 by us. If, however, you contact us at a later date we will either open 
 a new account for you and credit that account with that amount of money 
 in the closed account or repay the money to you, with interest, at a 
 rate which we reasonably consider to be appropriate.
 
 20. Account Documents
 
 We will issue you with an account document, (eg passbook, certificate 
 or other similar item) which will remain our property. These items are 
 designated by us as account documents. The following will apply to the 
 account document:
 
 i. You must forward the account document 
 to us when we ask you to, so that we can bring it up to date, or for 
 any other purpose we reasonably require.
 
 ii. You will be responsible for the safe 
 keeping of the account document.
 
 iii. You must produce to us the account 
 document before making a withdrawal.
 
 iv. If the account document is lost or stolen 
 you must immediately report this to us in writing at our Principal Office.
 
 v. After you have;
 
 (a) provided such evidence regarding the 
 loss; and 
 
 (b) given any indemnity; and 
 
 (c) paid any fee
 
 which we may require, we will transfer the amount in the account in 
 our records to a new account and afterwards shall issue you with a new 
 account document after 14 days.
 
 vi. If someone other than you produces your 
 account document to us, pretends to be you or to be authorised by you, 
 and is therefore able to withdraw money from your account, you will 
 be liable for the amount of any withdrawals made if you have not notified 
 us in writing of the lost or stolen account document or have acted fraudulently 
 or with negligence.
 
 vii. When you have reported the loss or 
 theft of the account document we may issue you with a new account document, 
 but this may be subject to conditions (eg that you pay a charge for 
 the new document). Withdrawals cannot be made for 14 days from the date 
 you report your account document lost.
 
 21. Variation of these Terms and Conditions and any other provisions 
 relating to any account (other than interest rate and charges)
 
 21.1 We can change these Conditions and any special conditions applying 
 to particular accounts at any time (other than the rate of interest 
 and charges) as set out below. Changes may include the removal of or 
 amendment to conditions or the inclusion of new conditions, and may 
 be made if we reasonably believe that the change is needed for any of 
 the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at 
 the time or those which are expected to apply in the near future) - 
 
 
 i. to reflect general market conditions 
 and standards (including the terms on which similar accounts are offered 
 by other building societies, banks or anyone else providing financial 
 services);
 
 ii. so that we can compete more effectively 
 with other building societies, banks and anyone else providing financial 
 services;
 
 iii. to improve efficiency and/or reduce 
 costs;
 
 iv. to give extra benefit to investors (including making the 
 terms of accounts easier to understand);
 
 v. to take account of changes in the law, 
 decisions of an Ombudsman, regulator or similar person, or any code 
 of practice with which we intend to comply;
 
 vi. to correct errors;
 
 vii. you agree;
 
 viii. the needs of the business justify 
 a change.
 
 21.2 We may also change these Conditions and any special conditions 
 applying to particular accounts for any other valid reason where we 
 reasonably believe change is appropriate.
 
 21.3 A change which in our reasonable opinion improves a service, or 
 provides for additional services, or which otherwise benefits you or 
 does not materially alter the nature of our contract with you, may be 
 introduced with immediate effect and without notice, but we will tell 
 you within 30 days of the change as set out in 21.4 (i) - (iii) beneath.
 
 21.4 Any change which is neither to your advantage or disadvantage will 
 be effective, unless special conditions for particular accounts provide 
 otherwise, only after at least 30 days' notice is given to you in at 
 least one of the following ways;
 
 i. by individual notification by letter 
 or other personal notice; or
 
 ii. by general notice in our Branches, Principal 
 Office or web page in conjunction with advertisements in two or more 
 daily newspapers of our choice. You can find out which are the relevant 
 newspapers by contacting any Branch or Principal Office; or
 
 iii. by such other means as may be set out 
 in terms applicable to your account.
 
 21.5 If the change is clearly to your disadvantage, we will:
 
 notify you personally; and
 
 ignore any notice period on your account for at least 60 days 
 starting from the date of the notice so that you can, if you wish, switch 
 your account or close it.
 
 You will not have to pay any additional charges or additional interest 
 as a result of this switch or closure during this 60 day period.
 
 21.6 If there have been significant changes in any one year or a lot 
 of minor changes, we will give or send you a copy of the new terms and 
 conditions or a summary of the changes.
 
 21.7 Changes to interest rates are specifically covered by section 4.
 
 22. Branch Closures
 
 If we close a branch or agency office we will give you 8 weeks notice 
 placing a prominent notice in the branch or agency informing you of 
 the alternative facilities you may use in order to conduct your account 
 with the Society.
 
 23. Credit Reference Agencies
 
 We will not give information on your account to a credit reference 
 agency unless you have permitted us to do so. It may be necessary to 
 check with a credit reference agency as a form of identification when 
 opening your account.
 
 24. Service of Notices
 
 1. You will be taken to have received any letter or e-mail or other 
 personal notice 48 hours after we have sent it to you.
 
 2. If we, accidentally, fail to -
 
 (a) send to you a communication intended 
 for our investors generally or a category of our investors of which 
 you are one, or
 
 (b) display a notice at our Principal Office 
 or any branch office.
 
 This will not make the notice invalid.
 
 25. Retention and Set-off
 
 We have the right to retain and set-off all money in any account 
 you hold with us against any money you may owe to us (whether under 
 a mortgage, loan, guarantee or otherwise) which is due for payment but 
 which has not been paid. We will give you notice in writing when we 
 have done this. Interest or bonuses will not be paid on any money after 
 it has been used in this way.
 
 26. Matters beyond our reasonable control
 
 We will not be liable for any loss or expense incurred by you if we 
 are unable to provide any account services because of strikes, other 
 industrial action, failure of power supply or equipment or other causes 
 beyond our reasonable control.
 
 27. Governing Law
 
 The Conditions are governed by the laws of England and Wales. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our 
 Rules
 
 a. This is not a complete summary of our 
 Rules. You can get a full copy of the Rules and the Memorandum (which 
 sets out our powers) free on request from any Branch or Principal Office.
 
 b. The Rules may be changed from time to 
 time by an appropriate resolution passed at a General Meeting of the 
 Society. 
 
 c. The Rules do in many cases operate differently 
 for PIBS (Permanent Interest Bearing Shares) but we have not so far 
 issued any PIBS.
 
 You may find the following information about our Rules helpful. Please 
 read it together with the Investment Conditions.
 
 1. Rule 8 details the Society's powers on 
 opening share accounts and sets out details.
 
 2. You must tell us about any change of 
 your name and address (and produce appropriate evidence of change of 
 name). You must also supply a specimen of your signature when we ask 
 for it. (Rule 4)
 
 3. There are provisions for membership and 
 joint holding of investment accounts (i.e. by more than one person). 
 (Rule 1 and Rule 4)
 
 4. There are provisions on cessation of 
 membership rights. (Rule 6)
 
 5. If you die and you do not have more than 
 £5,000 invested with the Society in total then we can pay that sum to 
 a person who claims to be beneficially entitled on proof of certain 
 evidence. See our leaflet entitled "Coping with Bereavement". (Rule 
 5)
 
 6. The Rules provide that where an investor 
 dies or becomes bankrupt, the person who is then entitled to the account 
 can be registered as the holder upon payment of a fee. (Rule 5)
 
 7. Under the Rules, if you become mentally 
 incapable of managing your affairs, we can allow the person who appears 
 to us to have care of you or your affairs to operate or close your account. 
 (Rule 8 (5))
 
 
 
 
 
