
Investment Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Large enough to cope,
 small enough to care." 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTEREST RATES FROM
 1st December 2001
 MINIMUM WAIVED IF ACCOUNT HOLDER IS
 UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE
 
 
Investment Guide
 
 
 Interest 
 Procedure to
 open a new account 
 
 
 Interest Rate
 Variation 
 Identification 
 
 
 A.E.R. 
 Bank Payments 
 
 
 Cleared Funds 
 Withdrawals 
 
 
 Cheques 
 Taxation 
 
 
 Data Protection Act
 1998 
 Passbook Entries 
 
 
 Confidentiality 
 The Financial Services
 Compensation Scheme 
 
 
 Marketing 
 Cooling-Off 
 
 
 Complaints Procedure 
 Joint Accounts 
 
 
 Tariff of Charges 
 Society's Discretion 
 
 
 Code of Practice 
 Help us to help you 
 
 
 Ombudsman 
 Full Investment Terms
 And Conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest
 - Interest is calculated on a daily basis from the day following the date
 of investment until the date prior to withdrawal. If you ask, we will give you a full
 explanation of how we work out interest.
 
Back to the top
 
Interest
 Rate Variation - Variations are publicised in the Times and
 Surrey Mirror and in the Society's offices.
 
Back to the top
 
A.E.R. -
 This is the annual equivalent rate if interest is credited to the account. Except where
 stated, interest is paid or added on 30th September and 31st March. Interest rates are
 variable. Variations are publicised in selected newspapers and a list is available on
 request.
 
Back to the top
 
Cleared Funds
 - Although the Society is pleased to accept investment by cheque, we do
 ask that you allow a period of seven clear working days to elapse before withdrawing
 against such investment.
 
In the case of unpaid cheques, no interest will
 be earned and any interest so credited on the assumption that your cheque would be met
 will be taken from the account.
 
Back to the top
 
Cheques -
 Cheques drawn by the Society on a customer's account, to a third party, will not normally
 be stopped. However, in extreme circumstances this can be done, provided the account
 holder notifies the Society in writing and pays the tariff
 charge. Cheques must be presented within six months or they become out of date. 
 Warrants drawn by the Society must be presented within three months or they will become
 out of date.
 
Back to the top
 
Data
 Protection Act 1998 - Customers have the right of access to
 their personal details held on our computer files and within manual files, although we may
 wish to make a reasonable charge for providing this.
 
Back to the top
 
Confidentiality
 - We will treat all your personal information as private and confidential
 (even when you are no longer a customer). We will not reveal your name and address or
 details about your account to anyone, including other companies in our group, other than
 in the following four exceptional cases when we are allowed to do this by law.
 
1. If we have to give the information by law.
 2. If there is a duty to the public to reveal the information.
 3. If it is in our interests to give the information. But we will not use this as a
 reason for giving information about you or your accounts (including your name and address)
 to anyone else including other companies in our group for marketing purposes.
 4. If you ask us to reveal the information, or if we have your permission.
 
 Back to the top
 
Marketing
 - Please confirm in writing if you do not wish to receive advertising or
 general material relating to the services the Society or an associated body can provide.
 
Back to the top
 
Internal Complaints
 Procedure
 
We hope that you are fully satisfied with the service you
 receive from the Society. However, if you are not, we have an internal complaints
 procedure (ICP) which is designed to help resolve your complaints in a fair and speedy
 manner.
 
Making a complaint - ICP procedure
 
You may make a complaint by any reasonable means, for
 example, by letter, telephone, e-mail or in person. All complaints should be directed to
 the Chief Executive and confirmed in writing.
 
We will send a written acknowledgement of your complaint
 within five working days (working days exclude weekends and bank holidays).
 
Within four weeks of receiving your complaint, the Society
 will either send you a final response or a holding response, which will explain:-
 
- why we are not yet in a position to resolve the complaint, and
 
- indicate when the Society will make further contact, which
 will be no later then eight weeks after the complaint was received.
 
 
By the end of eight weeks after receiving your complaint, the
 Society will send you either:-
 
a final response which
 
- accepts the complaint and, where applicable, offers redress,
 
- offers redress without accepting the complaint, or
 
- rejects the complaint and gives reasons for doing so, and
 contains information about the right to complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service or,
 
 
a response which
 
- explains that the Society is still not in a position to make a
 final response, give reasons for the further delay and indicates when the Society expects
 to be able to provide a final response and
 
- informs the complainant that he/she may refer the complaint to
 the Financial Ombudsman Service if he/she is dissatisfied with the delay, and enclose a
 copy of the Financial Ombudsman Service explanatory leaflet relating to complaints.
 
 
If you decide to pursue your complaint through the Financial
 Ombudsman Service you must do so within six months of the date of the final response.
 
Further information relating to the current Financial
 Ombudsman Service complaints scheme is available from this Society or direct from
 Financial Ombudsman Service, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9SR, telephone
 number 0845 080 1800; e-mail: enquiries@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
 or website www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
 
 
Back to the top
 
Tariff of
 Charges - Charges are levied for certain transactions. 
 The Society needs to make these charges to cover the costs incurred.
 
 
 Unpaid Cheques 
 £15 
 
 
 CHAPS payments for telegraphic transfer of
 monies 
 £25 
 
 
 Stopped Cheques - where the customer has taken
 the cheque 
 £10 
 
 
 Special Presentation of cheques for early
 clearing 
 £15 
 
 
 
Back to the top
 
Code of
 Practice - We subscribe to the Banking Code of Practice and
 copies are available upon request. Alternatively, please click on the following link to
 visit their own web-site and download the appropriate documentation. http://www.bankingcode.org.uk
 
Back to the top
 
Procedure to open a new account - An Investment
 Application form and blue signature card should be completed and forwarded to the Society
 with the cash or cheque(s). To add to an existing account, all you have to do is send the
 pass book with the amount you wish to invest.
 
Back to the top
 
Identification
 - In accordance with the code of Banking Practice and Money Laundering
 Regulations this Society has a legal responsibility to confirm the true identity of all
 applicants seeking to open an account. In order to comply with these requirements for
 POSTAL APPLICATIONS, we will need sight of FOUR of the following; Original
 documents TWO FROM EACH SECTION.
 
SECTION ONE
 a) driving licence.
 b) pay-slip which is less than three months old.
 c) bank statement, building society statement or credit card statement which is
 less than three months old.
 d) mortgage statement which is less than three months old.
 e) P60 which must be for the current year.
 
SECTION TWO
 a) Utility bill (gas, electricity, water, telephone or council tax) which is less
 than three months old.
 b) Inland Revenue communication.
 
FOR PERSONAL APPLICATIONS we will need sight of TWO
 of the following; Original documents ONE FROM EACH SECTION.
 
SECTION ONE
 a) passport
 b) identity card
 c) driving licence
 d) credit card
 e) birth certificate
 f) pay-slip which is less than three months old
 
SECTION TWO
 a) Utility bill (gas, electricity, water, telephone or council tax) which is less
 than three months old.
 b) Inland Revenue communication.
 c) bank statement, building society statement or credit card statement which is
 less than three months old.
 
If the account is to be opened in joint names, the Society
 will require proof of identity of all applicants. All documents will be returned promptly.
 
IMPORTANT NOTE: We regret that it will not
 be possible to open an account unless suitable proof of identity is provided and if
 adequate identity is not provided it will be necessary to return your remittance to you.
 
Back to the top
 
Bank Payments
 - Arrangements can be made to make further payments at any branch of any
 bank, or by bank order, to the Society's account, No 27584798 (60-17-27) at the National
 Westminster Bank Plc, 21 High Street, Reigate, RH2 9AD. National Girobank payments should
 be made to the Society's account No. 3051714.
 
Back to the top
 
Withdrawals
 - Unless otherwise stated, within the terms of the account and the Terms and Conditions relating to Investments,
 withdrawals can be made on demand up to £100,000 but for larger withdrawals we require
 one day's written notice.
 
Back to the top
 
Taxation
 - On 6th April 1991 the system for taxing interest paid by banks, building
 societies and other financial institutions was changed. You can now arrange for the
 interest on your accounts to be paid with no tax deducted if you are not liable to income
 tax. That is, your total taxable income is less than your total tax allowance. Further
 details are available on request from the Society.
 
Back to the top
 
Passbook
 Entries - If your passbook has an entry which seems to be
 wrong, you should tell us as soon as possible so that we can resolve matters.
 
Back to the top
 
The Financial
 Services Compensation Scheme - The Holmesdale Building Society
 is a participant in the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the
 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments under the Scheme are limited to a
 maximum of £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares
 and/or deposits, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including
 individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of shares and deposits are not
 covered. Although most shares and deposits are denominated in sterling, all other
 currencies are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society.
 
Back to the top
 
Cooling-Off
 - If you are unhappy about your choice of account within 15 days of
 opening it, you must tell us in writing, when we will help you switch accounts or give you
 your money back with interest. The 15 day period commences on the day the account is
 opened. We will ignore any notice period or any additional charges.
 
Back to the top
 
Joint
 Accounts - Two or more persons may jointly hold a share, unless
 the terms of the share forbid a joint holding. Persons jointly holding a share shall be
 entitled to choose the order in which they are named in the Society's records. However,
 the first named of the joint holders will be regarded by the Society as the representative
 joint holder.
 
All joint holders of a share may authorise in writing one of
 their number to withdraw the share or receive interest or bonus paid in respect thereof.
 However, if one joint holder is given authority to operate the account and the Society
 becomes aware of a dispute between the joint holders then both signatures will be required
 to operate the account. These circumstances may prevail in the case of a divorce or
 separation. If this is the case you should both come to the Society to arrange for the
 joint accounts to be closed and new accounts opened in your sole names. If no such
 authorisation is made all joint holders must sign notices of withdrawal and interest and
 bonus payments will be made in the names of all joint holders.
 Any reference in the Rules to any number of members of the Society shall be read as
 if any shares held jointly were held by the representative joint holder only.
 
No joint holder of shares, other than the representative
 joint holder, may attend a meeting except as a proxy, or exercise any right conferred by
 the Rules on a member.
 
A member of the Society who is a representative joint holder
 and who holds shares at the voting date is entitled to vote on a resolution subject to the
 Rules of the Society.
 
Notice of every Annual General Meeting or Special General
 Meeting shall be sent to the representative joint holder.
 
Back to the top
 
Society's
 Discretion - The Society may at its absolute discretion and
 without giving any reason, refuse to issue a share to any person or accept a person as a
 member.
 
Back to the top
 
Help us to help you - It will help us to provide you with a high standard of service if
 you make sure you let us know as soon as possible when you change your: name, address or
 phone number.
 
 Back to the top
 
Ombudsman - Member of the Financial Ombudsman Service Scheme.
 
Back to the top 
 
