Birmingham Midshires - Complaints
Voicing Your Concerns
The steps to take if you need to resolve a problem or complaint with Birmingham 
 Midshires.
We Can Help
We aim to provide you with the highest standards of service. However, there 
 may be occasions when you feel you have cause for complaint. If so, our staff 
 will try to resolve the problem. If you're not satisfied, you can take your 
 complaint further through our established customer complaints procedure.
Step 1
For branch complaints, please contact your local branch. For other complaints, 
 please contact our Corporate Centre.
We would like you to talk to us about your complaint to give us the opportunity to put it right. There are lots of ways you can do this.
Call in to or phone your local branch and discuss the problem with our staff 
 or ring our Corporate Centre on 01902 302000 with details of your complaint. 
 This will ensure we pass your call to the correct team, who will deal with the 
 problem. We'll always take the time to listen and do whatever we can to help.
The information needed to resolve most problems is available to our staff who 
 have day-to-day responsibility for looking after your account. They'll be in 
 the best position to deal with your query as quickly as possible.
If you are still not satisfied they will immediately refer your complaint to their Manager.
Where possible he or she will always ring you, but sometimes it may be better 
 for us to write to you to explain. Whatever happens, we'll write to you within 
 five working days.
Step 2
Referral to Customer Relations who will contact you.
In the unlikely event that your concerns cannot be resolved at this level please write to:
Customer Relations Team 
 Birmingham Midshires 
 PO BOX 81
 Pendeford Business Park 
 Wobaston Road 
 Wolverhampton
 WV9 5HZ
 or telephone: 01902 325695
If you make a written complaint, we'll send a letter of acknowledgement within 
 two working days of receipt. We'll also tell you when we'll be able to give 
 you a more detailed response.
If you remain dissatisfied, please refer to Step 3 of the complaints process.
Step 3
Referral to an Ombudsman
We are committed to resolving complaints whenever possible through our complaints 
 procedure. However, if a matter can't be resolved, we'll issue a letter of deadlock, 
 enabling you to refer your complaint to the Ombudsman.
This is an independent adjudicator who can investigate and make a decision 
 about outstanding disputes. You can find details about the Ombudsman at the 
 bottom of this page.
Birmingham Midshires Financial Services Limited
If your complaint relates to a financial services product e.g. a life assurance, endowment or pension policy and you are not satisfied with the advice you have received in relation to this, please write to:
Compliance Team
 Birmingham Midshires
 PO BOX 81
 Pendeford Business Park
 Wobaston Road
 Wolverhampton
 WV9 5HZ
 or telephone: 01902 302820
or a member of branch staff can take details of your complaint and forward it on for you.
If you make a written complaint, we'll send a letter of acknowledgement within 
 five working days of receipt of your letter. We'll also tell you when we'll 
 be able to give you a more detailed response.
If your complaint relates to advice given after 1 January, 1992, this acknowledgement 
 may come from AXA Sun Life if your complaint complaint relates to an AXA Sun 
 Life policy. However, the acknowledgement may come from Halifax if your complaint 
 relates to a product sold to you by Birmingham Midshires Independent Financial 
 Services Limited.
If your matter can't be resolved satisfactorily, then you have the right to 
 refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Advice
Birmingham Midshires Financial Services Limited is an appointed representative 
 of the AXA Sun Life Marketing Group. Because of this, complaints relating to 
 the sale of AXA Sun Life products through Birmingham Midshires financial consultants 
 since January 1992, may need to be passed to our colleagues at AXA Sun Life 
 to investigate. Please note this does not include advice given by a Birmingham 
 Midshires Independent Financial Services Limited adviser.
We are committed to meeting the needs of all our customers.
If you have a hearing or speech impairment, you can use Typetalk whenever you 
 contact us. For the visually impaired, we can provide documents in large print, 
 Braille or on audio cassette.
Please speak to a member of staff.
Ombudsmen and Arbitrators Addresses
For all Ombudsman Queries:
 Financial Ombudsman Service 
 South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London. E14 9SR 
 Telephone: 0207 964 1000
 Fax: 0207 964 1001
 
 
About Us 
Contact Us 
Phone a Boss 
Disability Discrimination Act 
Customer Service 
Complaints 
Directions to the Corporate Centre 
Pictures of the Corporate Centre 
AskBM Survey 
Unclaimed Distributions 
BM in the Community 
Branch finder 
Home Menu 
 
