
	
	
	
	Chelsea Building Society
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section is designed to provide you with useful information about 
 investing with the Chelsea Building Society, and explanations on policy, 
 practice and current services available to investors. Details about specific 
 investment accounts can be obtained by calling 08457 446622.
 
 
Investment limits
 Identification
 Interest
 Notification of interest rate changes
 Statements/tax deduction certificates
 Taxation
 Withdrawals
 Sending cheques through the post
 New issues of investment accounts
 Transfers to new types of investment accounts
 Terms and conditions of accounts
 Joint accounts
 Direct Debits
 ATM withdrawals
 Marketing material
 The Banking Code
 The Financial Services Compensation Scheme
 Data Protection Act 1998
 What to do if you have a complaint
 
	 Investment limits
 The minimum investment needed to open an account with the Chelsea varies 
 depending upon the account terms.
 
The maximum permitted investment in the Society by any one investor is 
 £1,000,000 and within that limit a maximum of £250,000 may 
 be held, subject to less than 7 days' notice. Many of the Society's investment 
 products pay no interest if the minimum balance falls below that required 
 as a minimum under the terms of the account. The account terms should 
 be consulted as to whether this provision applies.
 
	 Identification
 To comply with banking convention, statutory requirements and as an integral 
 part of prudential management to protect the Society and its customers, 
 we will seek suitable means of identification for each applicant when 
 opening an account at branches and before access to funds is permitted. 
 Please be prepared to produce such items as a passport, driving licence, 
 pension book and other documents such as utility bills.
 
 Certain items, such as library tickets, bus passes and other items which 
 are easily obtained and do not offer a reliable means of proof of identity, 
 may not be accepted by the Society's staff. We carry out additional checks 
 to establish identity where accounts are opened by post. New customers opening 
 accounts by post are asked to provide two or more of the following for each 
 applicant; recent Utility Bill, Income Tax coding notification or demand, 
 recent Council Tax Bill, recent Bank or Building Society statement. Further, 
 due to changes in identification requirements there are additional checks 
 to prove identity. In order to carry out these checks you will be asked 
 to provide your employment details, home and business telephone numbers 
 on the application form. For withdrawals and transfers from one account 
 to another, the Society may also request suitable means of proof of identity.
	 
For applications by trustees the society will seek additional information 
 concerning both the settlor and beneficiary and may require additional 
 documentation for either or both the settlor and beneficiary.
 
	 Interest
 The date(s) and/or frequency of interest payments are set out in the 
 respective terms and conditions of the investment account. The terms relating 
 to interest calculation and any penalties (where applicable) are also 
 detailed in the account terms and conditions.
 
Notification of interest rate changes
 The Society Standard Investment Account Terms set out how interest rate 
 changes will be notified to investors. The Society uses as a standard 
 means of notification, press notices and notices held on permanent display 
 at all branches of the Society. Branch and press notices detail interest 
 rates for accounts both currently promoted through the Society's branches 
 and those which are not currently promoted. In other situations, the Society 
 may provide investors with individual notification of interest rate changes 
 where the Society determines that it is appropriate or where it is necessary 
 to comply with the Banking Code.
 
For those investors who do not maintain contact with their nearest Chelsea 
 branch, details of current interest rates can be obtained by written request, 
 by contacting your nearest branch by telephone and asking for the Investment 
 Helpdesk or by clicking here.
 
The National Daily newspapers normally used by the Society to notify 
 interest rate changes or, where applicable, changes to account terms are 
 The Daily Mail and The Daily Telegraph.
 
	 Statements/tax deduction certificates
 The Society issues to investors a combined Statement/Tax Deduction Certificate 
	annually in April, reflecting interest paid and tax deducted (where applicable) 
	in the preceding tax year. The tax deduction certificate will be required 
	by your Tax Office if you wish to reclaim any tax deducted. Where accounts 
	are closed, the Society issues tax deduction certificates upon request.
	 
Taxation
 Subject to the required Inland Revenue certification, interest may be 
 paid gross. The Inland Revenue form R85 is available on request at your 
 local Chelsea office. In the absence of valid certification, interest 
 will be paid after deduction of tax at the applicable rate, currently 
 20%, which may be reclaimed from the Inland Revenue by non-taxpayers. 
 
 
In the case of joint accounts interest may be paid entirely gross without 
 deduction of tax, however, all account holders must provide the Society 
 with a valid R85 certificate.
 
For joint accounts with no more than two account holders, interest may 
 be paid half net and half gross where only one investor is eligible to 
 certify to receive gross interest. In other circumstances interest will 
 be paid entirely net. The net rates shown in the Society's investment 
 literature and promotional material are illustrative assuming tax at the 
 current applicable rate of 20%.
 
Where the tax deducted exceeds an investor's tax liability (if any), 
 a claim may be made to the Inland Revenue for repayment of tax. Individuals 
 who are liable to tax at the higher rate of income tax will have to pay 
 additional tax on their interest to cover the difference between the tax 
 deducted and the higher rate of tax due. Chelsea investors who are not 
 ordinarily resident in the U.K. for tax purposes, will receive interest 
 after the deduction of tax at the applicable rate, currently 20%. Some 
 or all of this tax may be repayable by the Inland Revenue. For further 
 information, contact the Inland Revenue, Claims Branch (International 
 Division), St John's House, Merton Road, Bootle, Merseyside L69 9BB.
 
	 Withdrawals
 The terms and conditions of each type of account specify whether or not 
 notice is required and, for accounts requiring notice for withdrawals 
 and transfers, details of interest penalties (where applicable). It is 
 important to remember that withdrawals or transfers are not permitted 
 against the proceeds of any cheque paid into an account within the preceding 
 eight working days. In calculating the number of working days, Saturdays, 
 Sundays, Bank and Public holidays are excluded.
 
For accounts where a passbook has been issued and where an account provides 
 for immediate withdrawal the Society's daily "on demand" cash 
 withdrawal limit is £250 per investor and the Society reserves the 
 right to decline to pay larger sums for withdrawal in cash whether or 
 not notice of withdrawal is given, for reasons of security. However, £5,000 
 by cheque may be withdrawn on demand and on production of your passbook 
 at any of the Society's branches. Larger sums by cheque may be withdrawn 
 within a few days. Where withdrawal cheques are issued, it is the Society's 
 practice to issue such cheques crossed A/C Payee. Before effecting withdrawals 
 or transfers from one account to another the Society's staff may require 
 production of suitable means of identification to facilitate a secondary 
 signature check. Suitable items will include; Passport, Driving Licence, 
 a signed Cheque Guarantee or Credit or Debit Card.
 
For accounts subject to notice of withdrawal or transfer, or where notice 
 is otherwise given, the transaction will be effected on the due date where 
 the passbook or passbooks and detailed instructions have been provided. 
 In the absence of a specific request from an investor to collect a withdrawal 
 cheque personally from the branch, the Society will despatch the cheque 
 on the due date and send it to the registered address of the investor 
 or in accordance with other instructions provided by the investor, by 
 first class post.
 
Where following expiry of notice the passbook or passbooks have not been 
 provided to the Society with detailed instructions from the investor, 
 the notice is treated as lapsed and beyond a seven day period of grace 
 withdrawal or transfer will then be subject to a further period of notice.
 
For accounts operated exclusively by post, and where a passbook has not 
 been issued the relevant literature and terms and conditions set out the 
 arrangements for withdrawing funds.
 
	 Sending cheques through the post
 If you send a cheque through the post, it will help to prevent fraud 
 if you clearly write the name of the person you are paying the cheque 
 to and put extra information about them on the cheque. For example, if 
 you are paying a cheque to a large organisation such as the Inland Revenue, 
 write on the cheque the name of the account you want the cheque paid into 
 (Inland Revenue, Account - J Jones). If you are paying a cheque into a 
 bank or building society account, always write on the cheque the name 
 of the account holder (XYZ Bank, Account - B Brown).
 
	 New issues of investment accounts
 We offer different types of account from time to time. These products 
 may be branch-based accounts or postal/telephone-based accounts.
 
 If you require details of any products we may currently offer through 
 any or all such distribution channels, please contact your nearest branch, 
 letting the staff know your requirements. The branch address and telephone 
 number is detailed on the inside front cover of the passbook issued or, 
 for investors with postal or telephone based products, within the operating 
 pack provided to you. 
 
Interest rates of products currently available are listed here.
 
	 Transfers to new types of investment accounts
 You are welcome to transfer from an existing Chelsea investment account 
 to one of our currently promoted accounts, immediately and without penalty, 
 if your existing account:
 
 
- does not have a period of notice or penalty for withdrawals; or
 
- is no longer available to new investors.
 
 
But, if your existing investment account is subject to a fixed period 
 of investment (e.g. a fixed rate bond) or has a guaranteed link to Bank 
 Base Rate, transfers may be carried out immediately and without penalty 
 only after expiry of the fixed period or guarantee.
 
Please note, some accounts with a guarantee do not have a period of notice 
 or penalty for withdrawals - you may need to check your account terms.
 
 
	 Terms and conditions of accounts
 The Society's investment leaflets provide details of terms and conditions 
 of accounts. Should you need any clarification on the terms of the account 
 which you have opened or are contemplating opening, please ask the staff 
 at your nearest Chelsea branch.
 
Terms and conditions may be varied from time to time. Changes in terms 
 and conditions will be notified to investors in accordance with the terms 
 and conditions of the account, and in compliance with the Banking Code 
 by either sending written notification to account holders or by notices 
 displayed at all branches of the Society or by press notices in two national 
 daily newspapers.
 
If there have been significant changes in any one year the Society will 
 give or send a copy of the new terms or a summary of the changes to account 
 holders.
 
	 Joint accounts
 Where accounts are opened allowing fewer than all the account holders 
 to operate the account, upon the death of an account holder the funds 
 will be deemed to be owned by the surviving account holder. Joint ownership 
 may continue through divorce, separation or dispute between the parties. 
 Variation of ownership can be achieved by mutual agreement between the 
 parties or by order of a court.
 
Where accounts are opened providing fewer than all the account holders 
 to operate the account, in the event of a dispute, separation or divorce 
 and in the absence of mutual agreement between the parties or order of 
 a court the standing instructions for operation of the account may continue 
 for the authorisation of withdrawals or transfers or other services offered 
 by the Society. However, if a party to a joint account wishes to freeze 
 the proceeds of the account it is necessary to provide a written request 
 to the Society to this effect. Freezing of the account may not apply to 
 certain types of transactions as provided in the terms of the account 
 e.g. payment of personal cheques supported by a cheque guarantee card.
 
In the event of failure of the parties to reach agreement the account 
 holder(s) may wish to seek legal advice from a solicitor or consult a 
 Citizens Advice Bureau. Additionally, the account holder(s) may wish to 
 discuss such matters with the Society, for example, to obtain details 
 of any direct debits or standing orders or other instructions held by 
 the Society or other information.
 
Where the declaration provided to the Society confirms that the account 
 is established on the basis of joint and several responsibility and the 
 account becomes overdrawn the Society is entitled to seek recovery from 
 either/any holder of that account.
 
	 Direct Debits 
 If the terms of your account provide for a direct debit service you have 
 the benefit of the Direct Debit Guarantee. The Chelsea leaflet "Direct 
 Debiting. Why not pay the easy way?" is available on request and provides 
 full details of the guarantee.
 
	 ATM withdrawals
 If the terms of your account provide for an ATM card withdrawal service, 
 whilst the Chelsea does not levy charges for this service, some banks 
 and building societies may levy a charge when you use their machines. 
 If a charge is levied the ATM screen display will refer to the charge 
 before you use the service. Such charges will, subsequently, be debited 
 to your account.
 
	 Marketing material
 The Society may from time to time, send investors details of products 
 such as insurance and other types of financial services. If you do not 
 wish to receive such promotional material please advise your nearest Chelsea 
 branch.
 
	 The Banking Code
 The Banking Code is a voluntary code followed by banks and building societies 
 in their relations with personal customers in the U.K. The Code, which 
 the Society both welcomes and has adopted, sets out standards for banks 
 and building societies to follow in their dealings with customers. Investors 
 requiring a copy of the Banking Code (www.bankingcode.org.uk) 
 should contact their nearest Chelsea Branch or write to:
 
 Chelsea Building Society, Thirlestaine Hall,
 Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL53 7AL
 or telephone (01242) 283593. 
 
 
You may find the following website useful - Building Societies Association 
 - www.bsa.org.uk 
 
	The Financial Services Compensation Scheme
 The Chelsea Building Society is a participant of the Financial Services 
 Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets 
 Act 2000. Payments under the Scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, 
 that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares 
 in a society and/or deposits, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most 
 investors are covered, including individuals and small firms. A small 
 number of categories of shares and deposits are not covered. Although 
 most shares and deposits are denominated in sterling, all other currencies 
 are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society.
 
	Data Protection Act 1998
 Chelsea complies with the Data Protection Act 1998 in relation to the 
 processing of information about you. The Act provides that upon payment 
 of a fee you are entitled to receive details of the information that 
 we hold about you.
 
If you wish to request access to this information, please write to: 
 The Data Protection Officer, Chelsea Building Society, Thirlestaine 
 Hall, Thirlestaine Road, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, GL53 7AL. 
 
	What to do if you have a 
 complaint
 Occasionally, situations arise where customers feel the need to complain. 
 
If you are dissatisfied with the service you have received, you should 
 contact the branch or head office department involved and explain why 
 you are dissatisfied.
 
We will always try to resolve your complaint immediately. However, 
 if that is not possible, or upon request, we will acknowledge your complaint 
 in writing. Full details of our Internal Complaints Procedure are available 
 upon request. If we cannot resolve your complaint to your satisfaction 
 you have the right to refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
 
 
 
Principal Office:
 Thirlestaine Hall, Cheltenham, Glos. GL53 7AL
 Telephone: (01242) 283593 
 
	
	
	
