
ISA - CAT Standard
 
 
 
 
 Cash 
 ISA 
 
 
 
 
 ISA
 
 CAT 
 standard tax exempt savings account 
 
 
 Instant 
 access without penalty 
 
 
 Minimum 
 opening amount £10 
 
 
 Interest 
 paid free of income tax 
 
 
 Interest 
 guaranteed to be no lower than 2% below Bank of England base rate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Available only within our local area unless stated
 
 
1. 
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 
 
An
 ISA is an Individual Savings Account which is available from 6 April 1999
 onwards. The scheme provides tax-free investment and will run for at least
 ten years. The favourable tax treatment of ISAs is given by the Government
 who could change this at any time. 
 
 
 
This
 leaflet describes the types of ISA available from us (Clay Cross Building
 Society) as well as some detail about the ISA scheme generally. For more
 information about ISAs generally please ask for the leaflet, Individual
 Savings Accounts and Building Societies. 
 
 
 
The
 Government has issued CAT standards for ISAs. To meet the CAT standards
 our ISA must be simple, clear and fair. CAT standards are explained more
 fully in section 8 of this leaflet. This ISA meets the Government’s CAT
 standards. 
 
 
 
2. 
 WHAT ARE THE QUALIFYING INVESTMENTS FOR ISAs? 
 
 
 
There
 are three groups (or components) of qualifying ISA investments: 
 
 
 
(i) 
 cash
 (the cash component), which includes
 building society and bank accounts 
 
 
 
(ii) 
 stocks
 and shares (the stocks and shares
 component), including equity shares, unit trusts and UK Government
 securities 
 
 
 
(iii) 
 insurance
 (the insurance component), namely certain
 single premium life insurance policies 
 
 
 
3. 
 WHAT TYPES OF ISA ARE THERE? 
 
 
 
There
 are three types of ISA: 
 
 
 
(i) 
 maxi,
 which comprises one or more components but including at least the stocks
 and shares component 
 
 
 
(ii) 
 mini,
 which is made up of a single component 
 
 
 
(iii) 
 TESSA-only,
 a special type of ISA which allows investment of matured TESSA 
 funds in a cash component 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
 WHAT TYPE OF ISA CAN I INVEST IN AT CLAY CROSS BUILDING SOCIETY? 
 
 
 
We
 offer the cash component of a mini ISA and, for investors whose TESSA is
 maturing, a TESSA-only ISA. 
 
 
 
You
 can subscribe to our mini ISA if you are aged 16 or over and live in the
 UK. You must not subscribe to another cash mini ISA or subscribe to any
 component of a maxi ISA in the tax year in which you subscribe to your
 mini ISA with us. By opening a cash mini
 ISA you limit the amount of tax-free savings in equities you can make, if
 you do not already have a mini stocks and shares or insurance ISA. 
 
 
 
You
 cannot have an ISA jointly with anyone else. 
 
 
 
Special
 rules apply to TESSA-only ISAs. These are described in section 9.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
 HOW MUCH CAN I INVEST IN MY ISA? 
 
 
 
To
 open an ISA with us you will need to invest at least £10. After that you
 can invest any amount up to the limit allowed. 
 
 
 
In
 each of the tax years ending on 5 April until the year 2006 the limit is
 £3,000 in the cash component of your mini ISA with us. 
 
 
 
Special
 rules apply to TESSA-only ISAs. These are described in section 9.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
 CAN I MAKE WITHDRAWALS FROM MY ISA? 
 
 
 
Yes.
 You can withdraw any amount up to the value of your account, subject to
 our normal branch limits, details of which are contained in our Guide
 to Savings leaflet. Interest will continue to be payable free of tax. 
 
 
 
Withdrawals
 have no effect on the subscription limits. Once you reach the limit in any
 tax year you cannot make any further subscriptions in that tax year. 
 
 
 
For
 example, if you subscribe £3,000 in May 2002 and withdraw £2,000 in June
 2002 your account balance will be £1,000. But you cannot make any further
 subscription in the tax year because you have already reached your
 subscription limit of £3,000. You can, however, make further
 subscriptions from 6 April 2003, the following tax year. 
 
 
 
If
 you withdraw all of your investment and close your ISA, you cannot open
 another cash component of a mini ISA in the same tax year. 
 
 
 
You
 can also transfer funds from your ISA to any other ISA we may offer from
 time to time or to another ISA manager. If the transfer is to be of
 current year subscriptions, the whole of those subscriptions must be
 transferred. For future years, funds in an ISA from previous year
 investments may be transferred in whole or in part. 
 
 
 
You
 cannot, though, transfer from your cash component to the insurance
 component or to the stocks and shares component. 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
 HOW IS INTEREST PAID? 
 
 
 
Interest
 will be added to your account each year on 5 April. No tax will be
 deducted. The rate of interest may vary from time to time. The rate of
 interest will be linked to Bank of England base rate and will not be less
 than 2% below that rate (except when the Bank of England base rate
 changes, in which case we will amend the rate within one calendar month of
 that change).
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
 WHAT ARE CAT STANDARDS? 
 
 
 
The
 Government has issued CAT standards for ISAs. To meet the CAT standards
 our ISA must be simple, clear and fair, and you must not be required to
 buy some other product. We are committed to continuing to provide a CAT
 standard ISA for those customers who have one. 
 
 
 
Our
 ISA meets the CAT standards in the following ways: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
· 
 Charges
 
 
 
 
 
There
 are no charges for withdrawals or for any regular use of the
 account. Charges for replacements (such as duplicate statements) may
 be made.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
· 
 Access
 
 
 
 
 
The
 minimum amount required to open the account is £10. After that
 there are no restrictions on the amounts that may be invested (up to
 the annual subscription limit) or withdrawn.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
· 
 Terms
 
 
 
 
 
The
 interest rate will be no lower than 2% below Bank of England base
 rate. It will reflect Bank of England base rate changes within a
 calendar month. There are no conditions attached to withdrawals. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
 WHAT ARE THE RULES FOR TESSA-ONLY ISAs? 
 
 
 
TESSA-only
 ISAs are only available for investors who have maturing TESSAs. On
 maturity of your TESSA you may, if you are resident in the UK, subscribe
 up to the total amount you paid in (i.e. excluding any interest added to
 your TESSA) to our TESSA-only ISA within six months of the maturity date. 
 
 
 
Amounts
 subscribed in this way do not count towards your annual subscription
 limit. 
 
 
 
Once
 you have invested your maturing TESSA funds, within six months of the
 maturity date, in our TESSA-only ISA you cannot add any more to that
 account. You can, however, make withdrawals from it by giving us 30
 days’ notice or immediately subject to the loss of 30 days’ interest. 
 
 
 
Because
 we require 30 days’ notice for withdrawals, our TESSA-only ISA does not
 meet the CAT standards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
 HOW DO I APPLY FOR AN ISA? 
 
 
 
Attached
 to this leaflet is an application form. Please complete this and bring it
 into our office with the amount you wish to invest. 
 
 
 
Please
 make sure that you fill in all details including your full name, address
 and postcode, date of birth and National Insurance number. If you have any
 difficulty, please ask one of our staff to help. 
 
 
 
The
 ISA will be opened on the day the application form is accepted by us. We
 will issue a passbook to you showing the amount you have invested and the
 date the account was opened. 
 
 
 
An
 ISA is not a "connected account” as defined by section 326A of the
 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. 
 
 
 
In
 the unlikely event that you
 have a complaint or query which cannot be resolved by our staff, the
 Society has an internal complaints procedure details of which will be made
 available on request. We are
 a member of the Financial Ombudsman Service and subscribe to the Banking
 Code which sets standards for the service we offer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ISA (Individual Savings
 Account)- CAT Standard
 
 
 
Terms and Conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.
 
 
 
 
 
This
 issue meets the UK Government’s CAT standards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.
 
 
 
 
 
This
 issue comprises a cash component of a mini-ISA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.
 
 
 
 
 
This
 issue is a branch-based account available only for persons living
 permanently in Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire or South Yorkshire.
 Transactions will not normally be carried out on a postal basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.
 
 
 
 
 
All
 investments in an ISA are shares in the Society.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.
 
 
 
 
 
Investors
 must be persons aged 16 or over and resident in the UK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6.
 
 
 
 
 
No
 investor may subscribe to more than one cash component of an ISA
 either with the Society or with any other eligible institution in
 any one tax year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7.
 
 
 
 
 
No
 investor may subscribe to a maxi ISA account in any tax year in
 which subscriptions are made to a mini cash component ISA.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8.
 
 
 
 
 
Joint
 accounts are not permitted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9.
 
 
 
 
 
An
 ISA may not be opened or held on behalf of another person.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10.
 
 
 
 
 
The
 minimum amount required to open an ISA is £10. 
 Thereafter, subject to the maximum annual limits described in
 condition 11 below, there are no minimum requirements for further
 investment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11.
 
 
 
 
 
The
 maximum investment in the years ending 5 April 2002 through to 5
 April 2006 is £3,000, and in subsequent years, commencing on 6
 April and ending on 5 April, will be £1,000. This is subject to
 change at the Government’s discretion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12.
 
 
 
 
 
The
 date of the opening of an ISA is the date on which the application
 is accepted and this will be shown in the passbook issued in
 connection with the account.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13.
 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawals
 may be made on demand, subject to the Society’s normal branch
 limits, details of which are contained in our Guide
 to Savings leaflet.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14.
 
 
 
 
 
Rates
 of interest on these shares may vary from time to time. 
 The interest rate will be linked to Bank of England base rate
 and will be no lower than 2% below that rate (except where Bank of
 England base rate changes, in which case the Society will amend its
 rates to bring it into line within one calendar month). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15.
 
 
 
 
 
Any
 variation to the interest rate will be publicised in the Society's
 offices, and will be advertised in selected newspapers as advised in
 the leaflet Guide to Savings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16.
 
 
 
 
 
Interest
 will be added to accounts annually on 5 April without the deduction
 of tax. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 17.
 
 
 
 
 
An
 ISA may be transferred to another eligible institution after giving
 30 days notice in writing and completing a prescribed transfer form.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18.
 
 
 
 
 
When
 an account ceases to meet any of the requirements to be an ISA it
 will be closed and any balance transferred to a Magnum instant
 access share account in the name of the investor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 19.
 
 
 
 
 
An
 ISA may not be assigned nor used as security for any loan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20.
 
 
 
 
 
An
 ISA is not a "connected account" as defined by section
 326A of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 21.
 
 
 
 
 
These
 terms and conditions should be read in conjunction with the general
 investment conditions contained in our Guide to Savings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22.
 
 
 
 
 
The
 terms and conditions of these shares may be varied at any time by
 the Society by giving not less than 30 days prior notice to the
 investor. The Society undertakes that any changes to terms and
 conditions will not affect the ability of this issue to meet CAT
 standards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Clay 
 Cross Building Society
 FREEPOST, Clay Cross, Chesterfield, Derbyshire S45 9BR
 (No Stamp Required)
 Freephone: 0800 834497 Fax: 01246 250397 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
