
Mortgage Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Large enough to cope,
 small enough to care." 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage Guide
 
How many times have you read that buying a house is one of
 the most stressful events that will happen in your lifetime?
 
Well we do not disagree, although there is one sure way to
 reduce the level of stress significantly, and that is to arrange your borrowing through
 the Holmesdale Building Society.
 
With our single office in Reigate, we can proudly boast that
 spanning over 146 years we have helped many people to buy or improve their homes.
 
This page is only intended as a guide, for more detailed
 information about the terms and conditions of our mortgage business please contact the
 Society. You are strongly recommended to refer to the Society's Rules and Mortgage
 Conditions.
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A
 MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT
 
 
 Where do I
 start? 
 Cases Of
 Hardship 
 
 
 So
 how much can I borrow? 
 Guarantees And Third
 Party Security 
 
 
 How
 much deposit will I need? 
 Data Protection
 Act 1998 
 
 
 Affordability 
 Confidentiality 
 
 
 Right To Redeem 
 Marketing 
 
 
 Redemption Fee 
 Complaints Procedure 
 
 
 Right Of Sale 
 Charges 
 
 
 Personal
 Covenant 
 
 
 
 
Where
 do I start?
 
Whether you are looking to set up home for the first time,
 hoping to move to a larger house, looking to improve your existing house, or even looking
 for a new lender because you are unhappy with your existing one, you need to establish how
 much you can borrow, and how much it will cost you every month.
 
Back to the top
 
So how
 much can I borrow?
 
The amount we may be able to lend you will depend on the
 level of your regular income and of course, the value of the property to be mortgaged.
 However to give you an idea, we are able to lend you up to 3.49 times your basic annual
 salary if you are buying on your own or, if there are two of you; we are able to lend up
 to 2.74 times your combined salaries on a loan to value of up to 75%. On a loan to value
 of over 75% we can offer you 3 times your single income and 2.5 times your combined
 incomes. In addition, if either you or your partner receive overtime, commission or
 bonuses, we can take this into account, but only if this other income can be shown to be
 either guaranteed or a regular feature of your monthly pay.
 
Please note the above is only a guideline and the income
 multiples are subject to the Society's discretion.
 
Back to the top
 
How
 much deposit will I need?
 
Unless you are purchasing as a sitting tenant and are
 therefore paying quite a lot less for your property than its current value, you will find
 that the Holmesdale Building Society does not consider 100% mortgages.
 
The most we will lend you - as long as you can afford it of
 course - is 90% of the lower of the purchase price or valuation and therefore you will
 need a deposit of at least 10%.
 
Back to the top
 
Affordability
 
Whilst you may fit the Society's criteria in
 respect of the size of mortgage you are considering, when applying for a mortgage you
 should complete a budget checklist. This will take into account all of your regular
 outgoings and anticipated purchase/moving costs so that you can be sure that you can
 afford the mortgage instalments. Consideration also needs to be given to any increase in
 mortgage interest rates.
 
Back to the top
 
Right to redeem
 
The borrower(s) may exercise this without prior
 notice in accordance with the Society's Mortgage Conditions clause 20 subject to clause
 5(f) and Rule No 15 (see below).
 
Back to the top
 
Redemption Fee
 (Rule No 15)
 
The Society reserves the right to charge up to 3
 months interest on either full or partial redemptions within the first 5 years. This is
 reduced by one fifth for each complete year that the mortgage has been in force or is
 waived if a new mortgage is taken out with this Society. Further the value of any
 discounted rate concession or benefit in lieu of the concession will be recovered, if
 applicable to the individual account. Redemption interest will not be charged in the event
 of early repayment of the mortgage for all mortgage offers issued after 26th November
 2001.
 
Back to the top
 
Right of sale
 (Possession)
 
The Society's power arises from the Mortgage
 Conditions clauses 13 and 14 and should this action be taken the Society will close the
 account but without prejudice to any liability under the borrower's Personal Covenant.
 
Back to the top
 
Personal
 covenant
 
The borrower is personally liable for all sums
 due to the Society whether or not any security held by the Society is sufficient to meet
 that liability.
 
Back to the top
 
Cases of
 hardship
 
The Society will wherever possible give
 sympathetic consideration in cases of hardship and would encourage borrowers who find
 themselves in financial difficulty to contact the Society immediately.
 
Back to the top
 
Guarantees and third
 party security
 
Any person willing to act as Guarantor must be
 aware that they are equally as liable for the debt as the borrower and that the potential
 liability is unlimited. Independent Legal advice is strongly recommended before entering
 into the undertaking to act as a Guarantor.
 
Back to the top
 
Data protection
 act 1998
 
Borrowers have the right of access to their
 personal details held on our computer files and within manual files, although we may wish
 to make a reasonable charge for providing this.
 
Back to the top
 
Confidentiality
 
The Society will at all times exercise strict
 confidentiality regarding your personal details and conduct of your account, except as
 authorised in the mortgage application form.
 
Back to the top
 
Marketing
 
Please confirm in writing if you do not wish to
 receive advertising or general material relating to the services the Society or an
 associated body can provide.
 
Back to the top
 
Internal Complaints
 Procedure
 
We hope that you are fully satisfied with the service you
 receive from the Society. However, if you are not, we have an internal complaints
 procedure (ICP) which is designed to help resolve your complaints in a fair and speedy
 manner.
 
Making a complaint - ICP procedure
 
You may make a complaint by any reasonable means, for
 example, by letter, telephone, e-mail or in person. All complaints should be directed to
 the Chief Executive and confirmed in writing.
 
We will send a written acknowledgement of your complaint
 within five working days (working days exclude weekends and bank holidays).
 
Within four weeks of receiving your complaint, the Society
 will either send you a final response or a holding response, which will explain:-
 
- why we are not yet in a position to resolve the complaint, and
 
- indicate when the Society will make further contact, which
 will be no later then eight weeks after the complaint was received.
 
 
By the end of eight weeks after receiving your complaint, the
 Society will send you either:-
 
a final response which
 
- accepts the complaint and, where applicable, offers redress,
 
- offers redress without accepting the complaint, or
 
- rejects the complaint and gives reasons for doing so, and
 contains information about the right to complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service or,
 
 
a response which
 
- explains that the Society is still not in a position to make a
 final response, give reasons for the further delay and indicates when the Society expects
 to be able to provide a final response and
 
- informs the complainant that he/she may refer the complaint to
 the Financial Ombudsman Service if he/she is dissatisfied with the delay, and enclose a
 copy of the Financial Ombudsman Service explanatory leaflet relating to complaints.
 
 
If you decide to pursue your complaint through the Financial
 Ombudsman Service you must do so within six months of the date of the final response.
 
Further information relating to the current Financial
 Ombudsman Service complaints scheme is available from this Society or direct from
 Financial Ombudsman Service, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9SR, telephone
 number 0845 080 1800; e-mail: enquiries@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
 or website www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
 
 
Back to the top
 
Charges
 
These may be made in connection with the
 operation of your mortgage account, some examples are as follows:-
 
 
 (i) 
 An insurance administration fee when buildings
 insurance is arranged independently. 
 
 
 (ii) 
 Changing the method of repayment. 
 
 
 (iii) 
 Administration fee on redemption of the
 mortgage. 
 
 
 (iv) 
 Other charges associated with the granting of
 further advances, re-advances or similar and the enforcement of the Society's security. 
 
 
 (v) 
 The Society's legal fees whether or not the
 advance is completed. 
 
 
 
We shall be pleased to provide details of
 current charges on request.
 
Back to the top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
