
	
 Scarborough Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 	Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond (Issue Seven)
	 	
	 	4.50% (gross per annum) on savings of £250 and above, fixed for the first twelve months, (AER 4.50%)
	 
 	After the initial twelve months the rate is guaranteed not to fall more than 0.25% below the Bank of England base rate for the remaining two years of the Bond for annual interest paying accounts.
 	
 	Product features
 	
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	SECURITY FOR YOUR SAVINGS
	 	
	 	Our three year bond combines the certainty of a fixed interest rate for the first twelve months of the account with the security of penalty free, no notice access and an interest rate that has a minimum guarantee against the Bank of England base rate in years 2 and 3.
What's more, you also have access to your money during the first year (subject to a loss of interest penalty - please refer to the 'Access to your Money' section), giving you peace of mind and the security of a building society account.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	MINIMUM INVESTMENT
	 	
	 	If you choose to have your interest paid annually, the minimum investment required to open a Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond is £250. The maximum amount which may be invested upon opening and during the life of the account is £250,000. This includes any interest which is credited to the account.
If you select the monthly interest option, the minimum investment to open the Bond is £1,000 (this amount must be maintained).
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	14 COOLING OFF PERIOD
	 	
	 	As with all the Society’s accounts, you will enjoy a 14 day cooling off period. This gives you time to make sure that you are happy with your investment choice. Please see the Society’s General Investment Conditions for full details. 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Annual Interest
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Effective Date: 02/06/26
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	From 
	 	To 
	 	Gross % p.a.* 
	 	Net % p.a.* 
	 	AER** 
	 	
	 	
	£250 
	£250,000 
	4.50 
	3.60 
	4.50 
	 	
	 	
	 	Monthly Interest
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Effective Date: 02/06/26
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	From 
	 	To 
	 	Gross % p.a.* 
	 	Net % p.a.* 
	 	AER** 
	 	
	 	
	£1,000 
	£250,000 
	4.25 
	3.40 
	4.33 
 
 
	 	AN EXPLANATION ABOUT YOUR INTEREST RATES
	The interest rates shown in the boxes above only relate to the first twelve months of your account being opened. For the next two years the rate will become variable and is guaranteed not to fall more than 0.25% below the Bank of England base rate for annual interest and not more than 0.50% below the Bank of England base rate for monthly interest.
We have made our calculations assuming the prevailing Bank of England base rate of 4.00%, effective at the time of launching Issue Seven on 26 June 2002. Please see the second and third paragraphs under the heading ‘Interest’ for a typical example how this account could work over the full three year period. Please note that this is only a typical example as the Bank of England base rate can fluctuate in the future.
* Interest will be paid or credited after the deduction of income tax at the lower rate of 20% or, subject to the required certification, gross.
** AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year. Please note that, if monthly interest is not added to your account, then the AER will not be achieved. The AER has been calculated using the gross rates you will receive in the first 12 months of your Bond.
 	
	 	YOUR QUESTIONS ANSWERED
	Q	How much can I invest?
A Your investment can start from only £250, up to a maximum of £250,000.
Q	Can I add to my investment?
A	Although you cannot add to the Bond during the fixed rate period, you can make additions at any time after the first twelve months.
Q	Can I withdraw money in the fixed rate period?
A	No, you must leave your money with the Society whilst it is earning the fixed rate during the first twelve months (Please read our Access to Your Money section in the Terms and Conditions section of this page). Thereafter you have penalty free, no notice access.
Q	What happens after the first twelve months?
A	You will have penalty free, no notice access to your funds. This means that you can withdraw from, or transfer money from this account without penalty, as long as you maintain a minimum balance of £250 (annual interest) or £1,000 (monthly interest). If, however, you choose to keep your investment in this bond, your interest rate will then have the benefit of a minimum guarantee against the Bank of England base rate for the remaining two years.
Q	When will I receive interest?
A	Your interest will be added to your Bond on the anniversary of you opening it, if you choose the annual interest option.
Q	What happens at the end of the three year term?
A	We aim to contact you prior to your bond maturing. However, it is up to you to contact us with your instructions. Once your Bond matures, it will continue to give you no notice access to your money at the same rate as our Scarborough First Post Account.
Q	Will there be any more Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bonds?
A	Further similar bonds may be available from time to time. The interest rates may be higher or lower than currently available. Please telephone Investments Direct on 0845 458 4522* 9.00am - 5.00pm, Monday to Friday for details of products available at any time.
Q	What do I have to do now?
A	All you need to do now is read the Opening Instructions, our General Investment and Telephone Access Conditions leaflet, as well as the rest of this brochure, and then complete the application form for your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond.
 	
	 	OPENING INSTRUCTIONS
	If you choose to have your interest paid annually, the minimum investment required to open a Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond is £250. The maximum amount which may be invested upon opening and during the life of the account is £250,000. This includes any interest which is credited to the account.
If you select the monthly interest option, the minimum investment to open the Bond is £1,000 (this amount must be maintained).
The Society reserves the right to close your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond if the balance falls below £250.
Your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond can only be operated through Investments Direct.
We can only accept the initial payment into your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond in the form of a cheque, or transfer from an existing Society investment account. Bank/building society standing orders will be accepted for subsequent payments after the first twelve months.
This is a share account and on opening the account, the account holder(s) will become an investing member(s) of the Society, in accordance with its Rules.
Accounts operated under Power of Attorney or as a Trustee account are not permitted.
 
As your account is a Telephone Access account, we can only accept joint accounts which are operated on either signature.
 
As with all the Society’s accounts, you will enjoy a 14 day cooling off period. This gives you time to make sure that you are happy with your investment choice. Please see the Society’s General Investment Conditions for full details. 
 	
	 	PROOF OF IDENTITY
	The Government’s fight to stop financial crime is fully supported by the Society and as a consequence we do require proof of identity and verification of address for all our customers. Two original documents, not more than three months old are required for each investor, photocopies are not acceptable. The documents, which will of course be returned to you, should be either:
 
•	Utility bill (e.g. Gas/Electricity)
•	Bank/Building Society Statement
•	Current Council Tax/Notice of Tax Coding
they MUST, however, show your name and address as it appears on your application form. Further verification checks may be carried out by the Society. If you already have an account with the Society bearing your current address, identification is not required. Unless proof of identity is provided, and all appropriate sections of the application form have been completed, including date of birth, we will have to return your investment to you.
It is important that you read the following terms and conditions of this account. If you want to discuss the account with one of our Customer Advisors prior to making your decision, please call us on 0845 458 4522 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. Monday to Friday.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 
These Terms and Conditions (and those contained in the Scarborough Building Society General Investment Conditions and Telephone Access Conditions) together with the Scarborough Building Society Memorandum and Rules set out the contractual relationship between Scarborough Building Society (‘the Society’) and you the member.
The Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond (Issue Seven)will become a closed issue on 31 July 2002. The Society may however close the account without notice prior to this date.
Earlier in this information, we set out the "Opening Instructions”. You should regard these paragraphs as being part of the Terms and Conditions.
 	
	 	INTEREST
	Should you choose to have your interest paid annually, your interest rate will be fixed for the first twelve months and thereafter is guaranteed not to fall more than 0.25% below the Bank of England base rate (also known as the repo rate), for the following two years. Should you choose to have your interest paid monthly, your interest rate will be fixed for the first twelve months and thereafter is guaranteed not to fall more than 0.50% below the Bank of England base rate for the following two years. Any new interest rate will become effective within 30 days of a Bank of England base rate change.
A typical example of how your account could work is:
On an annual interest account you will receive 4.50% p.a. gross fixed for the first 12 months (AER 4.50%) (net 3.60% p.a.). For the remaining two years the rate will be 3.75% gross p.a. variable (AER 3.75%) (net 3.00% p.a.).
On a monthly interest account you will receive 4.25% p.a. gross fixed for the first 12 months (AER 4.33%) (net 3.40% p.a.). For the remaining two years the rate will be 3.50% gross p.a. variable (AER 3.56%)(net 2.80%). These calculations are based strictly on the assumption of the present Bank of England base rate of 4.00% and this assumes the rate remains unchanged throughout the whole 3 year period.
Interest may, on your authorised instructions, be paid monthly/annually either to a designated bank or building society account, added to the balance of your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond, or transferred monthly/annually to another Scarborough Building Society account. If you choose the monthly interest option and the balance of your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond falls below £1,000, interest will be paid annually. The Society reserves the right to change the date on which interest is credited to your account.
Annual interest will be paid on the anniversary of the account being opened.
Interest which is payable monthly will be credited to your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond or your designated bank or building society account on the first working day of each calendar month.
If the balance of your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond falls below £250 (annual interest) or £1,000 (monthly interest), the interest rate payable for the period that the balance remains below the above amounts, will be the Society’s variable base savings rate applicable at the time. Details are available on request. 
 	
	 	ACCESS TO YOUR MONEY
	No withdrawals or transfers from the account are permitted during the first 12 months of the account being opened.
You may close your account within the first 12 months of the account being opened subject to 150 days’ loss of gross interest at the gross rate applicable at the time of closure. These instructions must be made by telephone.
After the initial 12 months, the account becomes a penalty free, no notice access account which means that you may make penalty free, no notice withdrawals, or close your account at any time during this period.
Transfers to any other Society account are subject to the withdrawal/closure conditions described above.
Instructions to withdraw from, transfer or close your account after the initial 12 months must be made by telephone.
This account does not offer cheque withdrawals. 
All withdrawals will be sent via BACS, directly to your nominated bank account. Confirmation of withdrawals will be sent to the last address on record. It normally takes 3 working days for a BACS transfer to become available at your bank.
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENTS
You may not add to your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond during the first 12 months of the account being opened, after which you may make additions at any time.
Additional bonds may be opened if available.
 	
	 	MATURITY
	Your Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond will mature 3 years after the account is opened, at which time we would aim to contact you. Once your account matures it will continue to give you penalty free, no notice access at the same rate as the Scarborough First Post Account.
SUBSEQUENT ISSUES
If the issue of this Bond is no longer available when your application is received, your investment will automatically be invested in the issue that is being offered at that time 
(if available). If no subsequent issue is available, we will try to contact you, or return your investment.
When your Bond has been opened for you, we will write to you and confirm the issue into which your funds have been invested. If you do not wish to invest in the subsequent issue, you may of course take advantage of our 14 day cooling off period.
 	
	 	TELEPHONE ACCESS CONDITIONS
	As an added feature, this Account is only available to account holders who subscribe to the Telephone Access Conditions.
In accordance with the Telephone Access Conditions, which have been issued to you separately, operation (including all enquiries, administration and servicing) of the Twelve Month Fixed Rate Bond (Issue Seven) must be arranged by telephoning Investments Direct. Investments Direct may currently be contacted on 0845 458 4522* between 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. Monday to Friday. Any instructions submitted in writing will be subject to a service charge of £10 which will be debited to your account and notified to you in writing.
*Telephone calls may be monitored and recorded for training purposes, security and for your protection.
 	
	 
 
 
 If you are interested in receiving further information about this product click here:
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Written quotations are available on request.
	
	
	Applicants must be aged 18 or over. In all cases the property will be security for the loan.
	Suitable life assurance may be required. All loans and benefits subject to status.
 
 
	The Society is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 Representative only of the Legal & General Marketing Group,	 members of which are
 regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for the purposes of making introductions
 to other representatives for recommending, advising on and selling life assurance and
 investment products bearing Legal & General's name.
	 
	 
 
 
 	
 	
	 	
	 	Find out about our lastest mortgage offer
	 	
	 	
	 	
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
