
UK Mortgages - Paragon Mortgages - Product Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 " ALIGN="right" WIDTH="604" HEIGHT="23" BORDER="0" USEMAP=#kbnav>
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Paragon Product Guide 
 
 
 
 
 
&nbsp
 
 
 Direct Debit Mandate
 
 
 
&nbsp
 
 
 Further Advance
 
 
 
&nbsp
 
 
 Interest Rates
 
 
 
&nbsp
 
 
 Lending Guidelines
 
 
 
&nbsp
 
 
 General and Special Conditions
 
 
 
&nbsp
 
 
 Declaration 
 
 
 
&nbsp
 
 
We have a comprehensive illustration spreadsheet, which will allow you to quote for any of the current Paragon Let Products shown below. Simply click on the following icons.
 
 
 
 
 
Buy To Let Products
 
 LIBOR Tracker Variable Rate This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moves in line with general trends of financial markets this rate is fixed at 1.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) and is set quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR Tracker rate is 5.70%.
 
 LIBOR Tracker Variable Rate - Lower Value Property. This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are 
looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). This scheme has a 1% loading and, reflecting the market costs of wholesale money, moves in line with general trends of financial markets. This rate is fixed at 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) and is set quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR Tracker rate is 6.70%.
 
 High Equity LIBOR Tracker Variable - Lower Value Property This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are 
looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). This scheme has a 2% loading and, reflecting the market costs of wholesale money, moves in line with general trends of financial markets this rate is fixed at 3.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) and is set quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR Tracker rate is 7.70%.
 
 High Equity LIBOR Tracker Variable Rate This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moves in line with general trends of financial markets this rate is fixed at 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London InterBank Offered Rate) and is set quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR Tracker rate is 6.70%. This includes the 1% loading for High Equity properties as the affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone. 
 
 Buy To Let Variable Rate A mortgage or remortgage (i.e. a mortgage on your current property replacing any existing mortgage) for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Our Lettings Variable Rate (5.99%) applies to a number of our Buy To Let Schemes and is reviewed on movements in the money market. 
 
 Buy To Let Variable Rate - Lower Value Property. This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Our Lettings Variable Rate (5.99%) applies to a number of our Buy To Let schemes and is reviewed on movements in the money markets. This scheme has a 1% loading, making the charging rate 6.99%.
 
 High Equity Buy To Let Variable - Lower Value Property. This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Our Lettings Variable Rate (5.99%) applies to a number of our Buy To Let schemes and is reviewed on movements in the money markets. This scheme has a 2% loading, making the charging rate 7.99%.
 
 High Equity Buy To Let Variable Rate A mortgage or remortgage (i.e. a mortgage on your current property replacing any existing mortgage) for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Our Lettings Variable Rate (5.99%) applies to a number of our Buy To Let schemes and is reviewed on movements in the money markets. This High Equity Scheme is judged purely on the basis of rental income where there is no track record, and accordingly carries a 1% loading, making the charging rate 6.99%.
 
 Low Cost LIBOR Tracker This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends, this rate is fixed for the first twelve months at just 0.75% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. Thereafter, it reverts to 1.75% above 3 month LIBOR. The charging rate at the current time is 4.95%.
 
 Low Cost LIBOR Tracker - Lower Value Property. This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends, this rate is fixed for the first twelve months at just 1.75% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. Thereafter, it reverts to 2.75% above 3 month LIBOR. The current rate is 5.95%.
 
 High Equity Low Cost LIBOR Tracker This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moves in line with general trends of financial markets this rate is fixed for the first twelve months at 1.75% above 3 month LIBOR (London InterBank Offered Rate), which is set quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current rate is 5.95%. Thereafter, it reverts to 2.75% above 3 month LIBOR. This includes the 1% loading for High Equity properties as he affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone.
 
 High Equity Low Cost LIBOR Tracker - Lower Value Property This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends of financial markets this rate is fixed for the first twelve months at 2.75% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is set quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current rate is 6.95%. Thereafter, it reverts to 3.75% above 3 month LIBOR. This includes the 1% loading for High Equity properties as he affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone.
 
 Freedom Tracker This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends, this rate is fixed at just 2% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. Thereafter, a loyalty discount is given & the rate reverts to 1.5% above 3 month LIBOR. The charging rate at the current time is 6.2%.
 
 Freedom Tracker - Lower Value Property. This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends of financial markets, this rate is fixed for 2 years at just 3% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) and is set quarterly in January, April, July & October. Thereafter, a loyalty discount is given & the rate reverts to 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR. The charging rate at the current time, including the 1% loading applicable to the Lower Value Property Scheme is 7.2%.
 
 High Equity Freedom Tracker This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends of financial markets, this rate is fixed for 2 years at just 3% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. Thereafter, a loyalty discount is given & the rate reverts to 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR. The charging rate at the current time is 7.20%. This includes the 1% loading for High Equity properties as the affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone.
 
 High Equity Freedom Tracker - Lower Value Property This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends of financial markets,this rate is fixed for 2 years at 4% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. Thereafter, a loyalty discount is given & the rate reverts to 3.5% above 3 month LIBOR. The charging rate at the current time is 8.20%. This includes the 2% loading, 1% for High Equity properties as the affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone & 1% for the Lower Value Property Scheme.
 
 Fee Saver Remortgage This scheme is a remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Available at a choice of Lettings Variable Rate (5.99%) or reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends, this rate can be fixed at just 1.5% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The charging rate at the current time is 5.70%.
 
 Fee Saver Remortgage - Lower Value Property This scheme is a remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Available at a choice of Lettings Variable Rate (6.99%) or reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends, this rate can be fixed at just 2.5% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The charging rate at the current time is 6.70%. This includes the 1% loading for the Lower Value Property Scheme.
 
 High Equity Fee Saver Remortgage This scheme is a remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. Available at a choice of Lettings Variable Rate (6.99%) or reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends, this rate can be fixed at just 1.5% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The charging rate at the current time is 6.70%. This rate includes the 1% loading for High Equity properties as the affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone.
 
 High Equity Fee Saver Remortgage - Lower Value Property This scheme is a remortgage for landlords who are looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). Available at a choice of Lettings Variable Rate (7.99%) or reflecting the market costs of wholesale money and so moving in line with general trends, this rate can be fixed at just 3.5% above 3 Month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate), which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The charging rate at the current time is 7.70%. This includes the 1% loading for the Lower Value Property Scheme and 1% loading for High Equity properties as the affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone.
 
 1 Year Fixed Rate This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. This rate is fixed for 1 year, and then reverts to 1.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 5.70%.
 
 1 Year Fixed Rate - Lower Value Property. This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are 
looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). This scheme has a 1% loading and, reflecting the market costs of wholesale money, moves in line with general trends of financial markets. This rate is fixed at 6.35% for 1 year and then reverts to 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 6.70%.
 
 High Equity 1 Year Fixed Rate This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. This rate is fixed at 6.35% for 1 year, reverting to 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London InterBank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 6.70%. This includes the 1% loading for High Equity properties as the affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income alone. 
 
 High Equity 1 Year Fixed Rate - Lower Value Property This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are 
looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). This scheme has a 2% loading and is fixed at 7.35% for 1 year, reverting to 3.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 7.70%.
 
 3 Year Fixed Rate This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. This rate is fixed for 3 years at 6.85%, and then reverts to 1.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 5.70%.
 
 3 Year Fixed Rate - Lower Value Property. This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are 
looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). This scheme has a 1% loading and, reflecting the market costs of wholesale money, moves in line with general trends of financial markets. This rate is fixed at 7.85% for 3 years and then reverts to 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 6.70%.
 
 High Equity 3 Year Fixed Rate This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who own properties to let, possibly in addition to a personal residential mortgage. This rate is fixed at 7.85% for 3 years, reverting to 2.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London InterBank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 6.70%.every quarter. This includes the 1% loading for High Equity properties as the affordability for the mortgage is judged on rental income. 
 
 High Equity 3 Year Fixed Rate - Lower Value Property This scheme is a mortgage or remortgage for landlords who are 
looking to borrow below our minimum loan (£15,001 to £25,000). This scheme has a 2% loading and is fixed at 8.85% for 3 years, reverting to 3.5% above 3 month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offered Rate) which is reset quarterly in January, April, July & October. The current LIBOR rate applicable is 7.70%.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
