
	
	
	
	Stroud and Swindon Building Society - Mortgages > Commercial Loans > Commercial Handbook
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages Commercial Loans Commercial Handbook
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages 
 
Remortgaging 
Moving Home 
First Time Buyer 
Existing Borrower 
Buying to Let 
Commercial Loans 
Commercial Mortgage 
Commercial Handbook 
Important Information 
 Savings 
 
 Insurance 
 
 Planning your Finances 
 
 Intermediary Centre 
 
 About Us 
 
 Other Services 
 
Term Assurance 
 
Personal Loans 
 
Annual Multi-Trip Travel 
 
Royal Int. Air Tattoo 
 
Loyalty Discount 
 
Site Map 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Commercial 
Handbook
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 A guide to mortgaging commercial properties.
 	 • The Mortgage Code
• Insurance
• How to Apply for a Stroud & Swindon Commercial Mortgage
• Ending Your Mortgage
• Other Useful Information
THE MORTGAGE CODE
We are aware that choosing a mortgage may be one of your most important financial commitments, and we want to help you make the right decision. To achieve that aim we fully support The Mortgage Code and, although the Code is designed for residential borrowers, our approach to Commercial lending is based on similar principles.
We will give information on the one commercial lending product currently offered.
We recommend that any applicant not approaching a lender direct should ensure the intermediary they use is registered under the Code.
 
WHO CAN APPLY FOR A COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE?
Anyone over 18 with sufficient income to repay the loan can apply for a mortgage. 
Commercial Mortgages are available to single and joint applicants up to a maximum of four; Partnerships; and Limited Companies (registered in the United Kingdom). We never discriminate against mortgage applicants on grounds of race, colour, nationality or sex.
HOW MUCH CAN YOU BORROW?
How much you can borrow depends on how much you can afford to repay and the value of your property. We believe in responsible lending; we do not want you to get into financial difficulties if, for example, interest rates rise during the life of your mortgage. 
In order to assess the amount we will lend, we require the following :-
1. copies of your last 3 years Audited Trading Accounts.
2. copies of your last 12 months business and personal bank statements.
3. Projections which demonstrate a capacity to meet financial commitments which will arise as a consequence of the loan.
If you have any ongoing financial commitments, hire purchase or maintenance payments for example, these are taken into account before we decide how much we can lend you.
The minimum amount that we will lend is £50,000 and the maximum is £250,000.
ARE COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES AVAILABLE ON ANY KIND OF PROPERTY?
We offer mortgages on freehold or long leasehold properties within the area covered by our branch network. We offer mortgages on old and new properties of many kinds; the age of a property makes no difference to the proportion of its value that we are able to lend. Our policy is to look at each property on its merits.
Commercial Mortgages are not generally available for :-
Hotels
Nursing Homes
Car Dealerships
Petrol Filling Stations
Lock-Up retail units
Serviced Offices
Property Development
Construction Works
SECURITY DOCUMENTATION
We will require :-
• A first charge on the property which is the security for the advance.
• Assignment of Life Policies for the principals / directors.
• On loans to Limited Companies
 - a debenture on the Company Assets .
 - personal guarantees from the directors.
YOUR TITLE DEEDS
Your title deeds are the documents which prove that you own your property. Once we make the loan, your solicitor will pass your deeds to us and we will keep them securely at our Head Office.
If you have an enquiry about your property - for example, if you need to know whether you or your neighbour owns the fence on one of your boundaries - your deeds may be able to give you the answer.
If you bought your property recently, ask your solicitor if he or she can answer your query. If not, send your query to our Head Office enclosing a diagram if necessary, and remembering to include your mortgage account number. We will examine your deeds, photocopy any relevant plans for you, and send you a written answer to your question. We will only charge you a nominal amount for this service.
If you have a more complex query about your property, it may be better if we send your deeds to your solicitor. In that case, you will have to pay an administrative charge, which includes postal costs.
WHAT DOES IT COST TO TAKE OUT A COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE?
Wherever you go for a mortgage, there are a number of costs to be paid. You should remember to budget for the following:
THE DEPOSIT
You have to pay a deposit on the property you are buying. Usually this will be at least 5% of the cost of the property.
THE VALUATION REPORT
You have to pay for a valuation report on the property you plan to buy. To give us a clear idea of the value of the property, we send a valuer to inspect it. Please note that this report is not designed to give a full picture of the condition of the property; it's only purpose is to help us decide whether we can offer you a mortgage. The precise cost of the valuation report depends on the type of property but will normally be a minimum of £350 or 0.25% of the valuation figure which is not refundable once the valuation has been carried out, whether or not the loan is approved. This report is prepared for us and not for you, therefore you cannot rely on it to answer questions which concern your personal interests.
THE SURVEY
Although you pay for the mortgage valuation report it is advisable and prudent to arrange a survey by your own surveyor on the property you are hoping to buy. A Building Survey will provide a full picture of both construction and condition and it is the only recommended inspection for particularly complex, large or dilapidated properties.
We will be pleased to arrange for a surveyor to contact you to discuss your needs and any additional costs. These should be kept to a minimum if the surveyor we choose to undertake our valuation also undertakes your survey. Remember commissioning your own survey is a simple way to avoid unpleasant and possibly costly surprises after moving in and may enable you to negotiate a lower purchase price.
ARRANGEMENT FEE
An arrangement fee of 1% of the amount of the advance, subject to a maximum of £1,000. Half this fee is payable when you submit your completed application form and the balance on acceptance of our Mortgage Offer.
LEGAL COSTS
We will instruct a separate solicitor to complete the mortgage and you will have to pay their fees. An estimate of these costs can be provided, on request.
You will also have to pay the following:
Land Registry Fees, so that your ownership of the property can be legally registered.
Stamp Duty, a government tax on property purchase. You do not have to pay stamp duty if you are moving your mortgage to us from another lender without moving property.
Searches, these are the enquiries your solicitor makes to confirm that the person selling the property is the legal owner and that there are no unpleasant surprises in store which might reduce the value of the property - such as plans to build a motorway outside the front door.
The land registry fee, stamp duty and search fees are sometimes called 'disbursements'.
TRANSFERRING YOUR COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE FROM ANOTHER LENDER · Remortgaging
If you already have a commercial mortgage with another lender, you are welcome to apply to transfer it to us. 
You will have to pay some (but not all) of the mortgage costs detailed previously. For example, you will have to pay an arrangement fee and a valuation fee; there will also be legal costs although these may not be as high as when you buy a property.
CHOOSING HOW TO REPAY YOUR COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE
When you take out a commercial mortgage, we ask you to choose how you would like to repay the money you have borrowed from us. All mortgages require you to pay back the sum of money that you borrow (which is called your ‘capital sum’) and also to pay interest on the loan. You must make regular monthly payments, usually by direct debit from your bank account. You can choose a ‘Repayment Mortgage’, an ‘Interest Only Mortgage’ or a combination of both kinds.
REPAYMENT AND INTEREST ONLY MORTGAGES
There are two basic methods of repaying the capital sum. The traditional building society 'repayment mortgage' in which each monthly payment represents part interest and part capital with the amount borrowed being repaid over the agreed term of the mortgage. The alternative method is an 'interest only mortgage' whereby the monthly payment to us repays only the interest due on the capital plus a second, separate payment to another financial institution which is expected to create a capital sum sufficient to repay the mortgage in a lump sum at the end of the mortgage term.
Since the choice between these two alternative repayment methods will depend upon the rate of return on the investment plan it is impossible for us to advise you as to the appropriate repayment method. Your decision will be based upon the rate of return you believe to be available from the investment plan over the term of your mortgage as compared to the interest rate charged on the mortgage account. It would, for example, be likely that you would prefer a 'repayment mortgage' if you believed the investment return would be likely over the course of the life of the mortgage to be lower than the interest rate charged on the account. lf the expected investment return exceeds the mortgage rate then the interest only mortgage may be more beneficial.
In making the comparison you should bear in mind that some investment plans offer insurance protection to cover the risk of death of one or both of the parties to the mortgage.
The most common kinds of investment plan used to repay capital sums are Endowment Policies and Personal Pension Plans. With Personal Pension Plans it may be necessary to take out life assurance as well.
To help you set up a Financial Plan, we can introduce you to NU, who offer a range of savings plans. Please note that we do not recommend any particular savings plan; your choice of Financial Plan (and any subsequent changes to it) should always be made in consultation with an Authorised Financial Advisor.
It is your responsibility to choose a suitable advisor and to make regular contributions to your Financial Plan. To help you make sure that all is well, we will remind you when we send your annual mortgage statement to check that your Financial Plan is on track to produce enough money to repay your capital sum in full when your mortgage term ends. Please note that if you decide to stop contributing to a Financial Plan, you should change to a Repayment Mortgage.
On payment of a small administrative charge, you may change your repayment method at any time. If you want to change, please ask us for an illustration of what your new payments will be. N.B. If you wish to change to an interest only method this will be subject to a suitable financial plan that repays the loan at the end of the term being in force.
INTEREST
You have to pay interest on the money we lend you. Payments must be made regularly every month.
The date on which we make your mortgage loan becomes the date each month when your payment is to be made (except if your loan is made after the 25th of the month, in which case your payment will be due on the 25th of each month). If that date is not convenient for you, please tell us and we will change it for you.
If you pay by direct debit, there are special arrangements which are explained in the next paragraph.
PAYMENTS BY DIRECT DEBIT
To simplify the process of collecting direct-debit payments, we only collect them from members' bank accounts on three days each month - the 8th, the 17th and the last working day of the month. This means that if your payment date is between the 1st and the 7th, we will actually collect your payment from your bank account on the 8th; if your payment date is between the 8th and the 16th, your payment will be collected on the 17th; and if your payment date is on the 18th or later, your payment will be collected on the last working day of each month. Please bear this in mind if you decide to change your payment date.
INTEREST-RATE CHANGES
From time to time, in common with all financial institutions, we may change our mortgage interest rates. Changes are advertised in advance in our branches and in national newspapers. Interest-rate changes can take place for any valid reason, including, for example:
• To reflect current conditions in the financial markets,
• So that we can compete effectively with other financial institutions
• To reflect changes in the way we administer mortgage accounts,
• To reflect changes in the law or in the way we are regulated.
You will be charged interest at the new rate immediately an interest-rate change comes into effect. If the interest rate changes between the issue of the Offer of Advance and the date on which we make the mortgage loan the new interest rate will apply from the date we make your loan. However, we only change your mortgage payments once a year. Every January we send you a detailed statement of your mortgage account, showing all the payments you have made during the preceding twelve months as well as the total interest you have been charged and any fees that you have paid. Your statement shows the total amount that you owe us at the end of the year. It also shows your new monthly payment, which you pay from February onwards.
 
Please contact us after an interest-rate change if you would like to change your payment immediately.
Insurance
INSURING YOUR PROPERTY
It is a condition of our Commercial Mortgage that the required buildings insurance must be arranged through us.
• you may spread your premium payments over twelve months at no extra cost; we will collect the premium with your monthly mortgage payment.
• we aim to keep pace with rebuilding costs by automatically index linking the amount insured.
• all of our policies have accidental and subsidence damage cover at no extra charge.
We send you a renewal notice once a year, giving full details of the premiums you have to pay and of the cover provided. If you need to make a claim the telephone number and the mortgage account number will be shown on your renewal notice. We are pleased to assist in any negotiations.
INSURING YOUR MORTGAGE PAYMENTS
In the Section dealing with cost we draw your attention to the need to budget for Life Insurance, Permanent Health Insurance and, if appropriate, Payment Protection Insurance.
LIFE ASSURANCE
Life Assurance will be required on the lives of the principal(s) when the business is dependent upon their contribution. The sum assured required is usually equivalent to at least 5 years of the monthly repayment. For Life Assurance, we introduce our members only to Norwich Union which is regulated by the Personal Investment Authoity. You may arrange life assurance elsewhere if you wish. The amount of life cover required by the Society will vary to reflect the individual merits of each case.
PERMANENT HEALTH INSURANCE
To protect yourself and dependants against the consequences of a long term illness or incapacity we recommend that you take out Permanent Health Insurance.
PAYMENT PROTECTION
This is only available where the mortgage security includes the applicant’s own living accommodation. If you are unable to work through illness, redundancy or accident, you may have difficulty in making your mortgage payments and paying insurance premiums. You may qualify for state benefit in respect of mortgage interest due but this will not start immediately and will not include capital payments on a Repayment mortgage. During this time your mortgage payments still have to be maintained and we strongly recommend that you take out Payment Protection Insurance. Please ask for a detailed leaflet and application form. Cover is available for the Self Employed.
If you need to make a claim, please ask us for a claim form. You should complete the form as soon as possible and return it to us. You will be asked to provide documentary evidence of unemployment or illness to support your claim.
BUSINESS INSURANCE
In addition to Buildings Insurance, we are able to arrange other Business Insurance e.g. Contents; Public and Employer’s Liability; Loss of Licence; Goods in Transit. Full details can be provided on request.
How to apply for a Stroud & Swindon Commercial Mortgage
STEP-BY-STEP GUIDE
When you apply for a mortgage, this is what happens:
1. We answer any questions that you want to ask, and give you a printed illustration of what your mortgage payments are likely to be together with a mortgage application form.
2. When you have filled in the form, you return it to us together with :
• the first installment of your arrangement fee
• a current passport or driving licence
• your last 12 months business and personal bank statements
• the last three years audited trading accounts
• the three most recent annual statements from your existing mortgage lender (if you have one)
3. If everything is in order, we send a valuer to inspect the property you intend to buy and we take up any appropriate references such as employers and existing lenders. If you are applying for a remortgage the valuer inspects your property.
4. If all the replies to our enquiries are satisfactory, you will receive a written offer of a loan (called the Offer of Advance). The Offer is a detailed document. You should read it carefully, paying particular attention to any special conditions that may be included. At the same time a copy of the Offer is sent to the Society’s solicitor who immediately contacts your solicitor with details of our requirements and the procedure to be followed.
5. With your solicitor's help, you exchange contracts with the seller of the property. If you are also selling a property, contracts on that sale are usually exchanged at the same time. At this stage, the sale becomes irrevocable. You pay a deposit and a date is set to complete the purchase.
6. You sign the mortgage deed, which is your promise to repay the money we lend you. Before the completion date, we send your solicitor a cheque for the agreed mortgage loan to be used to pay for the property you are buying. We charge you interest on the loan from the date on which we write the cheque; this is always shortly before the completion date.
7. When your mortgage arrangements have been completed, we send you a Completion Statement, which gives full details of your mortgage, including your monthly payments and the dates on which they must be paid (you will have signed direct debit instructions when you filled in your application form). The statement includes a reminder of any special terms and conditions that apply to your mortgage, details of tax relief if you qualify for it and details of your property insurance.
HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO ARRANGE A COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE?
It is not possible to give a precise timetable for arranging a mortgage because each one is slightly different. Our aim is to complete your mortgage as speedily and efficiently as possible; you can help us to do so by giving us all the necessary documentation as soon as you can.
OTHER INFORMATION
ADDITIONAL LOANS
You may be able to borrow more money from us by way of further advance - either to make improvements to your property or for other purposes. If you would like to discuss doing so, please contact our Commercial Mortgage Department.
Please note that if you want to borrow more money from us, it is always better to contact us before your present mortgage ends. After it has ended, your solicitor will have to help to arrange a new mortgage and this will involve you in extra expense.
We can usually lend up to 60% of the value of your property and the same criteria will be applied to any further advance application as for the original loan.
STRUCTURAL CHANGES TO YOUR PROPERTY
You must keep your property in good repair and our written consent is required before you make structural alterations or additions. 
You must comply fully with any Planning requirements or Statutory Regulations that apply to your property and you must not allow anything to be done which might reduce its value.
You may decide that you would like to sell some of your land or part of your property. We only agree to this if we are satisfied that your remaining property is valuable enough to cover your mortgage loan. That means that you may have to pay for another valuation before a sale can proceed.
WHAT TO DO IF YOU HAVE DIFFICULTY PAYING YOUR MORTGAGE
You must make regular monthly payments. If you miss one, we will send you a reminder, asking you to pay the arrears immediately. If you cannot make the whole payment at once, you should pay as much as you can and contact us straight away.
We adhere to the Council of Mortgage Lenders Statement of Practice on the Handling of Mortgage Arrears and Possessions and a copy of this statement is available on request.
If you have difficulty keeping up your payments, you should contact our Commercial Mortgage Department at our Head Office (phone 01453 757011). If you contact us as soon as problems arise, we may be able to find a way to help you, perhaps by altering the amount or the timing of your payments. 
Please note that any temporary help we give you does not release you from any of the conditions of your mortgage. Failure to make your mortgage payments gives us certain rights over your property, including the right to take possession of it and sell it in order to recover the money you owe us. Of course, we only do that as a last resort.
If we agree to accept smaller monthly payments from you for a while to help you out of your difficulties, your total debt to us will increase. At the end of each year, we calculate how much you owe us and charge you interest on that amount during the following year. So, if your total debt increases, your monthly payments for the following year will increase too. (If you fall into arrears without agreeing with us in advance that you may do so, you must pay off the arrears in full; they cannot be added to your total debt.)
Even when you are having trouble making your mortgage payments, it is very important to take good care of your property. If it falls into disrepair, its value will decrease.
Please remember that it is always best to tell us about financial problems (or possible problems) as soon as you can; then we can try to help you before the problems grow.
OTHER FEES AND CHARGES
In common with other lenders, we make a small charge for some of the services we provide. For example, we charge a fee to cover our administrative costs if you change your mortgage repayment method, if you let or sell part of your property or if you alter the borrowers' names as they appear on your mortgage deed. 
Under the mortgage conditions we may charge additional interest if your account falls into arrears. Whilst the conditions provide for us to charge an additional sum up to 2½% each month on the amount of any arrears, it is current policy to charge this additional interest only if arrears are increasing and there is no arrangement with the borrower to clear the arrears
There is a list of our services and our current charges at the back of this booklet.
Ending Your Mortgage
WHEN YOUR MORTGAGE ENDS
Mortgages are intended to run for their full term. They can be designed to run for as little as 5 years or as long as 35 years. The actual term will be determined by the ages of the applicants / guarantors.
When your mortgage reaches the end of its term, we will write to you to make the necessary final arrangements and to remind you to make sure that your property continues to be fully insured after your mortgage ends.
You will be charged interest up to the end of the month in which you finish repaying your mortgage. You will also have to pay a small administrative charge. Other administrative formalities are also necessary - such as registering at the Land Registry the fact that your loan has been repaid. This can take some time. Once the formalities have been completed, we can either send your deeds to you or to your solicitors.
If you sell your property, your mortgage must be repaid. You will be charged interest up to the end of the month in which your mortgage ends. You will also have to pay the administrative charge (as described in the previous section). Your solicitor will tell you if there are other charges to pay as well.
ENDING YOUR MORTGAGE EARLY
You may choose to repay part or all of your loan at any time before it reaches the end of its term. If you do so, you will have to pay the administrative charge (as described in the section called When Your Mortgage Ends). Your solicitor will tell you if there are other charges to pay as well.
If you want to repay your mortgage in full, please ask us for a Full Redemption Statement, which will show the exact amount that you need to pay. 
Please note that ending mortgages before they have run for three years usually means that you have to pay a fee to cover our costs in setting up your loan; we may charge up to three months' interest at our gross variable base rate on any amount that you repay during this period. Our mortgage leaflets and the Special conditions in the Offer of Advance give details of the fee that applies.
SOLVING PROBLEMS
Our aim is to provide the highest standards of service to all our members. However, things do occasionally go wrong; when this happens, we want to put matters right as quickly as possible. We have established the following procedure to deal with any difficulties promptly and efficiently.
If you have a complaint, you should discuss it with your local branch if you live in our branch area. If you live outside our branch area or if your problem cannot be resolved to your satisfaction by your branch manager, you should write to the Mortgage Administration Manager at our Head Office. If you are still not satisfied, you should then send full details of your problem to the Chief Executive at our Head Office.
If the matter still has not been resolved, you may write to the Building Societies Ombudsman, who will investigate your problem impartially. The Ombudsman's address is: The Financial Ombudsman Service, Millbank Tower, Millbank, LONDON SW1P 4XS. Please note that the Ombudsman will only consider your case if you have already taken all the other steps mentioned above.
CONFIDENTIALITY
Details of your financial affairs are strictly confidential. We only disclose information about you or about your mortgage to outside parties if you give your consent or when the law requires us to do so. As a mortgage holder, you have the right to see a copy of your personal records held on our computer files. (Please note that we make a small charge for this service).
NEW PRODUCTS & SERVICES
From time to time we would like to send you information about new products and services, which we think might interest you. These will be our own products and services and those offered by our subsidiaries and associates. If you would rather not receive such information, you should contact your local branch or write to our Mortgage Administration Department, quoting your account number.
We publish our full Mortgage Conditions in a separate booklet, which will be sent to your solicitor. You are advised to read that booklet before you sign your mortgage deed. 
Mortgage-holders who are individuals are automatically borrowing members of Stroud & Swindon Building Society and, as such, are bound by our Rules. We publish the Rules in a separate booklet; a copy will also been sent to your solicitor. 
CREDIT REFERENCE AGENCIES
We may disclose all credit performance information to credit reference agencies and the Council of Mortgage Lenders Possessions Register.
COMPLYING WITH THE LAW AND OTHER CODES
For your protection we will comply with the Law and all relevant codes of practice in particular The Mortgage Code promoted by Building Societies and other mortgage lenders. Copies of The Mortgage Code and the Banking Code are available on request.
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	We operate a Charitable Assignment Scheme (please click here to read full details).
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society is a Member of the Building Societies Association and subscriber to the Banking and Mortgage Codes. 
The Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life assurance, pensions and investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of Stroud & Swindon Building Society and Norwich Union.
	
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society | Rowcroft | Stroud | Gloucestershire | GL5 3BG 
	
	© Stroud and Swindon Building Society, 2001. All rights reserved.
	
	Telephone Calls may be monitored and recorded for training and security purposes
	Site design, build and management by 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 0800 61 81 61 
	 
	 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	 
 
	
 
