
Accounts
INTEREST
RATES FROM 1st June 2001
MINIMUM WAIVED IF ACCOUNT HOLDER IS
UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE
Investment Guide
 
 Interest 
 Procedure
 to open a new account 
 
 
 Interest
 Rate Variation 
 Identification 
 
 
 A.E.R. 
 Bank Payments 
 
 
 Cleared Funds 
 Withdrawals 
 
 
 Cheques 
 Taxation 
 
 
 Data
 Protection Act 1998 
 Passbook Entries 
 
 
 Confidentiality 
 Building Society's Investor
 Protection Scheme 
 
 
 Marketing 
 Cooling-Off 
 
 
 Complaints
 Procedure 
 Joint Accounts 
 
 
 Tariff of Charges 
 Society's
 Discretion 
 
 
 Code of Practice 
 Help us to help you 
 
 
 Ombudsman 
 Full
 Investment Terms And Conditions 
 
 
Interest
- Interest is calculated on a daily basis from the day following the date of
investment until the date prior to withdrawal. If you ask, we will give you a full
explanation of how we work out interest.
Back to the top
Interest
Rate Variation - Variations are publicised in the Times and Surrey
Mirror and in the Society's offices.
Back to the top
A.E.R. -
This is the annual equivalent rate if interest is credited to the account. Except where
stated, interest is paid or added on 30th September and 31st March. Interest rates are
variable. Variations are publicised in selected newspapers and a list is available on
request.
Back to the top
Cleared Funds
- Although the Society is pleased to accept investment by cheque, we do ask that
you allow a period of seven clear working days to elapse before withdrawing against such
investment.
In the case of unpaid cheques, no interest will
be earned and any interest so credited on the assumption that your cheque would be met
will be taken from the account.
Back to the top
Cheques -
Cheques drawn by the Society on a customer's account, to a third party, will not normally
be stopped. However, in extreme circumstances this can be done, provided the account
holder notifies the Society in writing and pays the tariff
charge. Cheques must be presented within six months or they become out of date. 
Warrants drawn by the Society must be presented within three months or they will become
out of date.
Back to the top
Data
Protection Act 1998 - Customers have the right of access to their
personal details held on our computer files and within manual files, although we may wish
to make a reasonable charge for providing this.
Back to the top
Confidentiality
- We will treat all your personal information as private and confidential (even
when you are no longer a customer). We will not reveal your name and address or details
about your account to anyone, including other companies in our group, other than in the
following four exceptional cases when we are allowed to do this by law.
1. If we have to give the information by law.
2. If there is a duty to the public to reveal the information.
3. If it is in our interests to give the information. But we will not use this as a
reason for giving information about you or your accounts (including your name and address)
to anyone else including other companies in our group for marketing purposes.
4. If you ask us to reveal the information, or if we have your permission.
Back to the top
Marketing
- Please confirm in writing if you do not wish to receive advertising or general
material relating to the services the Society or an associated body can provide.
Back to the top
Complaints
Procedure - This Society operates a procedure for the handling of
customer complaints and details are available on request.
Back to the top
Tariff of
Charges - Charges are levied for certain transactions. The Society
needs to make these charges to cover the costs incurred.
 
 Unpaid Cheques 
 £15 
 
 
 CHAPS payments for telegraphic transfer
 of monies 
 £25 
 
 
 Stopped Cheques - where the customer has
 taken the cheque 
 £10 
 
 
 Special Presentation of cheques for
 early clearing 
 £12 
 
Back to the top
Code of
Practice - We subscribe to the Banking Code of Practice and copies are
available upon request.
Back to the top
Procedure to open a new account - An application card
should be completed and forwarded to the Society with the cash or cheque(s). To add to an
existing account, all you have to do is send the pass book with the amount you wish to
invest.
Back to the top
Identification
- In accordance with the code of Banking Practice and Money Laundering Regulations
this Society has a legal responsibility to confirm the true identity of all applicants
seeking to open an account. In order to comply with these requirements for POSTAL
APPLICATIONS, we will need sight of FOUR of the following; Original documents TWO
FROM EACH SECTION.
SECTION ONE
a) driving licence.
b) pay-slip which is less than three months old.
c) bank statement, building society statement or credit card statement which is
less than three months old.
d) mortgage statement which is less than three months old.
e) P60 which must be for the current year.
SECTION TWO
a) Utility bill (gas, electricity, water, telephone or council tax) which is less
than three months old.
b) Inland Revenue communication.
FOR PERSONAL APPLICATIONS we will need sight
of TWO of the following; Original documents ONE FROM EACH SECTION.
SECTION ONE
a) passport
b) identity card
c) driving licence
d) credit card
e) birth certificate
f) pay-slip which is less than three months old
SECTION TWO
a) Utility bill (gas, electricity, water, telephone or council tax) which is less
than three months old.
b) Inland Revenue communication.
c) bank statement, building society statement or credit card statement which is
less than three months old.
If the account is to be opened in joint names, the
Society will require proof of identity of all applicants. All documents will be returned
promptly.
IMPORTANT NOTE: We regret that it will not be
possible to open an account unless suitable proof of identity is provided and if adequate
identity is not provided it will be necessary to return your remittance to you.
Back to the top
Bank Payments
- Arrangements can be made to make further payments at any branch of any bank, or
by bank order, to the Society's account, No 27584798 (60-17-27) at the National
Westminster Bank Plc, 21 High Street, Reigate, RH2 9AD. National Girobank payments should
be made to the Society's account No. 3051714.
Back to the top
Withdrawals
- Unless otherwise stated, within the terms of the account and the Terms and Conditions relating to Investments,
withdrawals can be made on demand up to £50,000 but for larger withdrawals we require one
day's written notice.
Back to the top
Taxation
- On 6th April 1991 the system for taxing interest paid by banks, building
societies and other financial institutions was changed. You can now arrange for the
interest on your accounts to be paid with no tax deducted if you are not liable to income
tax. That is, your total taxable income is less than your total tax allowance. Further
details are available on request from the Society.
Back to the top
Passbook
Entries - If your passbook has an entry which seems to be wrong, you
should tell us as soon as possible so that we can resolve matters.
Back to the top
Building Society's Investor Protection Scheme - The
Holmesdale Building Society is a member of the Building Societies Investor Protection
Scheme established under the Building Societies Act 1986. Payments under this scheme are
limited to 90% of an investor's total shares and/or deposits subject to a maximum
payment to anyone investor of £18,000 (or the sterling equivalent of £20,000 euro if
greater). Most shares and deposits denominated in sterling, other European Economic Area
currencies and ECU made with offices of the building society within the European Economic
area are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society.
Back to the top
Cooling-Off
- If you are unhappy about your choice of account within 15 days of opening it, we
will help you switch accounts or give you your money back with interest, we will ignore
any notice period or any additional charges. If you change your mind you must inform us in
writing within the 15 day period.
Back to the top
Joint
Accounts - Two or more persons may jointly hold a share, unless the
terms of the share forbid a joint holding. Persons jointly holding a share shall be
entitled to choose the order in which they are named in the Society's records. However,
the first named of the joint holders will be regarded by the Society as the representative
joint holder.
All joint holders of a share may authorise in writing
one of their number to withdraw the share or receive interest or bonus paid in respect
thereof. However, if one joint holder is given authority to operate the account and the
Society becomes aware of a dispute between the joint holders then both signatures will be
required to operate the account. These circumstances may prevail in the case of a divorce
or separation. If this is the case you should both come to the Society to arrange for the
joint accounts to be closed and new accounts opened in your sole names. If no such
authorisation is made all joint holders must sign notices of withdrawal and interest and
bonus payments will be made in the names of all joint holders.
Any reference in the Rules to any number of members of the Society shall be read as
if any shares held jointly were held by the representative joint holder only.
No joint holder of shares, other than the
representative joint holder, may attend a meeting except as a proxy, or exercise any right
conferred by the Rules on a member.
A member of the Society who is a representative joint
holder and who holds shares at the voting date is entitled to vote on a resolution subject
to the Rules of the Society.
Notice of every Annual General Meeting or Special
General Meeting shall be sent to the representative joint holder.
Back to the top
Society's
Discretion - The Society may at its absolute discretion and without
giving any reason, refuse to issue a share to any person or accept a person as a member.
Back to the top
Help us to help you - It will help us to provide you with a high standard of service if
you make sure you let us know as soon as possible when you change your: name, address or
phone number.
Back to the top
Ombudsman - Member of the Building Societies Ombudsman Scheme.
Back to the top
