
 
Saving Account Terms and Conditions - Cash Mini ISA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In these terms 
 and conditions "you/your" means the account holder(s) and "we/us" 
 means Dudley Building Society 
 
Membership 
 and Rules
 
1. 
 A Cash Mini ISA is a tax free savings account for an individual (subject 
 to amendment by Government).
 2. A Cash Mini ISA account is a share account. Shares are in Dudley Building 
 Society (the "Society"). You become a member of the Society 
 when your account is opened and you agree to be bound by the Society's 
 rules and the account terms and conditions. A copy of the Memorandum and 
 Rules is available on request from the Society's Branches and Head Office.
 3. Dudley's Cash Mini ISA's are only available to U.K. residents over 
 the age of 16 years. Applications cannot be accepted from Corporate Bodies.
 4. This Cash ISA does not meet the CAT standard (The minimum voluntary 
 benchmark prescribed by H.M.Treasury in regard to the Charges, Access 
 and Terms of the account). 
 
Savings 
 Limits and Receipts
 
5. 
 The minimum opening amount is £100.
 6. You can save up to £3,000 in a Cash Mini ISA each year until 
 5 April 2006 in addition to your maturing TESSA capital in a TESSA Only 
 ISA.
 7. Where a break between subscriptions lasts for a whole tax year, you 
 must make a fresh application before subscriptions can re-commence.
 8. By opening a Cash Mini ISA you will be limiting the amount of tax free 
 savings in equities you can make, if you do not already have a mini stocks 
 and shares for insurance ISA.
 9. The Society reserves the right to withdraw the account from offer without 
 notice.
 10. For receipts through the Bankers Automated Clearing System it is the 
 account holders responsibility to ensure that the correct account number 
 details are provided to allow the Society to credit payments to the account.
 11. Where receipts are made via the postal system the passbook is required.
 12. Cheques can normally be accepted for six months following the date 
 they are drawn. Post dated cheques will not be accepted.
 13. Cash and cheque deposits can be made at any branch. A handling fee 
 representing 10% of the total value of coins deposited will be charged 
 if the value is £20.00 or more.
 
Cooling-off 
 Period
 
14. 
 If after opening the account, you do not consider it to be suitable, you 
 may transfer the balance to another account with the Society, or have 
 the money returned, provided that in either case the Society receives 
 notification of your intention within 16 days from the date that your 
 ISA was opened(excluding public holidays). The interest will be paid gross 
 to you and the subscription will not count towards your ISA limits for 
 that tax year. You can open a subsequent Cash ISA with the Society or 
 another financial institution, up to your total allowance for that tax 
 year. The terms and conditions applicable to the new account will take 
 effect from the date of the original investment. Funds will not be returned 
 to the account holder until cheques have cleared which will take a period 
 of up to 14 days.
 
Interest
 
15. 
 The interest rates payable on your account are variable and we may change 
 the rate of interest at any time for any valid reason.
 16. When we change the interest rates, we will tell you about the changes 
 at the earliest opportunity but at least within 3 working days of the 
 change:
 (I) by general notice in our Branches
 (II) by notice in newspapers of our choice. The newspapers we usually 
 use are the Express and Star and Dudley News Group showing our previous 
 and new interest rates.
 Annually we will send a summary of our products and the current rates 
 and all the different interest rates which have applied to your account 
 during the year (unless the account balance is below £100).
 17. You can find out what interest rates apply to your account at anytime 
 by contacting any of our Branches or Head Office on (01384) 231414.
 18. Interest will be paid to you and will not count towards your ISA limits 
 for that year.
 19. Receipts into your account will earn interest from the day of receipt 
 to your account, although the Society requires up to 14 days before a 
 cheque will be cleared.
 20. Interest is paid annually on 30th September.
 21. Interest is calculated on a daily basis up to the day of withdrawal. 
 If you require an explanation of how your interest is calculated please 
 ask your local Branch or contact Head Office. A written explanation will 
 be posted to you within a few days of your request.
 22. Where interest is paid to a bank or building society account, you 
 must provide sufficient information for the transmission. In the event 
 of insufficient information, interest will be credited to the account.
 
Availability 
 of Funds and Withdrawals
 
23. 
 You may withdraw up to £500.00 in cash each day or a greater amount 
 by cheque providing you have the available funds in your account.
 24. If you wish to transfer your Cash Mini ISA to another ISA manager, 
 we will transfer the account with all rights and obligations.
 25. Withdrawals have no effect on the subscription limits. Once the limit 
 has been reached for the tax year investors may make no further subscriptions 
 regardless of withdrawals. Withdrawal requests cannot be processed unless 
 they are accompanied by the passbook. Withdrawal requests by telephone, 
 fax, electronic mail or via the internet will not be accepted.
 26. A cheque drawn on a Dudley Building Society account will not be stopped.
 27. We reserve the right not to pay withdrawals from cheques received 
 until up to 14 days have elapsed.
 28. Cheques withdrawn and subsequently returned for saving will earn interest 
 from the date they are received by the Society.
 29. For your protection, we may require proof of identity before allowing 
 withdrawals from the account.
 
Ownership 
 & Responsibilities
 
30. 
 On your death the capital value of the ISA and the accrued gross interest 
 is payable to your personal representatives. From the date of your death 
 the ISA will receive the net equivalent rate of the ISA account with us.
 
Identification
 
31. 
 The Society must observe the requirements of the Money Laundering Regulations 
 and therefore, proof of identity and verification of address will be required 
 before an account is opened. Your National Insurance Number will also 
 be required before a Cash Mini ISA account can be opened.
 
Change 
 of Address
 
32. 
 You must notify us promptly if your name or address changes. Any notice 
 of change of name must be accompanied by evidence of the change. We may 
 require evidence of any change of address.
 
Repayment, 
 Issue, Closure and Transfer 
 
33. 
 We may, without giving any reason, repay to you, all or part of your savings 
 at any time after giving you at least 30 days notice.
 34. We reserve the right to close any issue of the account to new savers, 
 without individually notifying each account holder.
 
Passbook
 
35. 
 We will provide you with a passbook, but it will remain our property and 
 must be returned to us on request. Your passbook must be forwarded to 
 us, at such times as we may decide, to be brought up to date or for such 
 other purposes as we may require.
 36. Your passbook must accompany any withdrawal and any further saving.
 37. If your passbook has an entry which seems to be wrong, you should 
 tell us as soon as possible so we can resolve matters.
 38. You must immediately notify us by contacting any of our Branches or 
 Head Office on (01384) 231414 if you discover that your passbook is missing. 
 You must then confirm this in writing. After you have provided such evidence 
 regarding the loss, and given any indemnity and paid such fee (if any) 
 which we may require, we may transfer the amount in the account to a replacement 
 passbook after seven days have elapsed. If someone other than you produces 
 your passbook to us, pretends to be you, or to be authorised by you, and 
 is therefore able to withdraw money from your account, you will be liable 
 for the amount of any withdrawals if you have acted fraudulently or with 
 gross negligence.
 39. The Society will issue a passbook in the name of the account holder. 
 The passbook may only be used in accordance with these Terms & Conditions. 
 The passbook is not transferable and may only be used by the person to 
 whom it is issued. You are not allowed to enter or amend any details/ 
 transactions in the passbook.
 
Retention 
 and Set-Off
 
40. 
 Provided we give notice in writing, we have the right to retain and set-off 
 all money in any account you hold with us against any indebtedness you 
 may have to us, whether under a mortgage, guarantee or otherwise, which 
 is due for payment or Repayment, but has not been paid or repaid as the 
 case may be. Interest or bonuses will not be paid on any money used in 
 this way.
 
Variation 
 of Terms and Conditions
 
41. 
 These terms and conditions (other than rates of interest) may be varied:-
 (a) To reflect general market conditions and standards (including the 
 terms of which similar accounts are offered by other financial institutions).
 (b) So that we can compete more effectively with other financial institutions.
 (c) To improve efficiency and/or reduce costs.
 (d) To give extra benefit to savers (including making the terms of the 
 account easier to understand).
 (e) To take account of changes in the law, decisions of the Ombudsman 
 regulator or similar person or any code of practice with which we intend 
 to comply;
 (f) If you agree.
 (g) The needs of the business justify a change.
 These terms and conditions will only be changed after at least 30 days 
 notice has been given to you. This notice will be provided:
 (a) through general notice in our Branches; or
 (b) by advertisement in newspapers of our choice. The newspapers we usually 
 use are the Express and Star and Dudley News Group.
 42. If any of these changes is clearly to your disadvantage these will 
 not take effect until we have personally written to you giving you at 
 least 30 days notice of the change. If you are not satisfied with the 
 changes we propose to make, you may within 60 days of us personally writing 
 to you, ask us to switch your account or close it. Any notice period applying 
 to your account during the 60 day period will be ignored and you will 
 not incur any additional charge or interest penalty.
 43. Where there has been a significant change to the terms and conditions 
 in any one year, we will send you a copy of the new terms and conditions 
 or a summary of these changes. 
 
Data 
 Protection
 
44. 
 Information supplied by you will be held on our records in accordance 
 with the Society's registration under the Data Protection Legislation. 
 We may use this information or share it with a third party, for account 
 administration (including debt tracing and collection), credit assessment, 
 fraud prevention and to inform you of other products and services. Please 
 write to us at the address below if you do not wish to receive information 
 on products and services. You are entitled to ask for a copy of any information 
 held about you, subject to a payment of a £10.00 administration 
 fee, and you also have the right to request that it be changed if it is 
 incorrect. If you have any questions about the Data Protection Act or 
 your rights under it, please write to the Society's Compliance Officer 
 at Dudley Building Society, Dudley House, Stone Street, Dudley, West Midlands, 
 DY1 1NP.
 
General
 
45. You are 
 not permitted to use a "Correspondence" address or a P.O. Box 
 number address.
 46. Post dated cheques will not be accepted or issued.
 47. We reserve the right to refuse any savings at any time at the Society's 
 sole discretion.
 48. The Society shall not be liable for any error or delay that may take 
 place in the processing of any transaction, or the operation of your account, 
 and any losses which may result, should the error or delay arise from 
 any circumstances beyond our reasonable control including, but not limited 
 to:
 (a) Industrial Action
 (b) Fire, Flood, Explosion, Act of Government, Riot, Act of God or any 
 other cause beyond our control.
 (c) The failure (directly or indirectly) of any machine, data processing 
 system or transmission link.
 (d) Delays in postal deliveries or cheque clearance.
 49. (i) We will not give any information about you to credit reference 
 agencies unless we have your permission.
 (ii) We will need your written permission before we give a bankers reference 
 for you.
 
Confidentiality
 
We 
 will treat all your personal information as private and confidential (even 
 when you are no longer a customer). We will not reveal your name and address 
 or details about your accounts to anyone, other than in the following 
 four exceptional cases when we are allowed to do this by law;
 
 
- If 
 we have to give the information by law; 
 
- If 
 there is a duty to the public to reveal the information; 
 
- If 
 it is in our interests to give the information. But we will not use 
 this as a reason for giving information about you or your accounts (including 
 your name and address) to anyone else including other companies in our 
 group for marketing purposes. 
 
- If 
 you ask us to reveal the information, or if we have your permission. 
 
 
The Banking Code
 
Dudley Building 
 Society complies with the Banking Code and Mortgage Code of Practice. 
 Copies of the Code(s) are available on request.
 
Compensation 
 Scheme
 
Dudley Building 
 Society is a participant in the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
 established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments 
 under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% 
 of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits 
 in a society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, 
 including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of 
 shares and deposits are not covered. Although most shares and deposits 
 are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further 
 details are available on request from the Society.
 
Customer 
 Complaints
 
In the first 
 instance please contact Head Office or your local Branch, outlining your 
 complaint, where the Manager will try to deal with the matter to your 
 satisfaction. If you are not satisfied with the explanation write to the 
 Society's Secretary at Dudley Building Society, Dudley House, Stone Street, 
 Dudley, West Midlands, DY1 1NP outlining the nature of your complaint. 
 Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
 Service, Banking and Loans Division, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, 
 London, E14 9SR. Tel: 0845 080 1800. Email enquiries@financial-ombudsman.org.uk. 
 Please note the Financial Ombudsman Service will not enter into investigation 
 of any complaint unless you have followed the Internal Complaints Procedure 
 (full details available on request).
 
Help 
 us to help you
 
 
 
It 
 will help us to provide you with a high standard of service if you make 
 sure you let us know as soon as possible when you change your:
 
 
- Name 
 
- Address; 
 or 
 
- Telephone 
 Number 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
