
	
	
	 
	
 
	A guide to choosing the right mortgage
 
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
A guide to choosing the 
right mortgage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
Why it pays to belong to Leeds &
 Holbeck
 
At Leeds & Holbeck, we understand
 how important it is that you choose the right mortgage. Whether you’re
 moving home, buying your first property or moving your mortgage from
 another lender, you need to be sure you’ve lined up the best possible
 deal. This booklet will provide an introduction to the process of
 arranging a mortgage, as well as helping you decide which type of
 mortgage is right for you. It’s written in straightforward language,
 with the intention of bringing you straightforward facts - that’s
 the Leeds & Holbeck way. There’s even a ‘Jargon-Buster’
 section to go through some of the mortgage-related terms that you can’t
 always avoid! 
 
Once you’ve read this page please call our helpline on
 0113 225 7777, and we'll be happy to answer any further questions you
 may have.
 
You can depend on our support whenever
 you need it.
 
 
 
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mission
 Statement
To be a successful independent building society,
 providing excellent value through quality customer service,
 efficiency and competitive products.
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
Mutuality makes a difference
 
 
Members’ interests really do come first at Leeds &
 Holbeck. We are committed to remaining a mutual building society, which
 means we can offer you advantages many other financial organisations
 simply cannot match.
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
Totally focused on members’ interests
 
 
- 
 
Professional and friendly staff always ready to help
 
 
- 
 
Products specifically tailored to meet members’
 needs
 
 
 
- 
 
Specialists in mortgage and savings products
 
 
- 
 
Taking care of members’ money while making
 it work hard
 
 
- 
 
Combining traditional values with innovative
 service
 
 
- 
 
Maintaining strong links with the community 
 
 
- 
 
Providing members with competitive rates 
 
 
 
 
 
With roots reaching back as far as 1845, Leeds &
 Holbeck is now one of the UK’s top ten independent building societies,
 providing a range of financial products, primarily mortgage lending,
 investment services and insurance. The Society holds assets in excess of
 £4 billion on behalf of its members.
 
 
 
Making the right move
 
Leeds & Holbeck will never ‘sell’ you a certain
 type of mortgage - we’ll simply help you decide which one is right
 for you. An informal chat with one of our Mortgage Advisors is the best
 way to do this, but the brief descriptions on these pages will also help
 you. 
 
 
 
 
Any of the four mortgage types detailed below can
 be linked to a choice of repayment options. You’ll find further
 details on these in the ‘Repayment options explained’ section. 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Rate Mortgage
This
 type of mortgage offers you the peace of
 mind that whatever happens to interest
 rates, your mortgage repayments won’t be
 affected during the period that your rate is
 fixed. Rates can generally be fixed from
 between 2 and 10 years - at the end of which
 your loan will normally switch to our
 competitive Standard Variable Rate.
 
Discounted Rate Mortgage
This mortgage type gives you a
 discount off our Standard Variable Rate for
 a fixed period of time. The rate applying to
 your account may go up or down in this time, but will, of course, always remain at a
 lower
 level than would have been the case under
 our Standard Variable Rate. This option
 would leave you with lower monthly
 repayments over a period when you may well
 appreciate a little extra cash, especially
 if you’ve just moved into a new home.
 
Capped Rate Mortgage
A capped rate
 mortgage guarantees
 that your payments will not rise above an agreed maximum (the ‘cap’) for a set
 period, just like a fixed rate
 mortgage. 
 
The difference is that if
 our Standard Variable Rate falls below this
 agreed maximum, the rate applying to your account will also fall. 
 
This double benefit means that the
 rate is usually set higher than a comparable
 fixed rate mortgage - but you can rest
 assured that your payments will never rise
 above a set level, and they may even go
 down.
 
Flexible Mortgage
People who want to pay off their
 mortgage early or expect their financial circumstances
 to vary during its term may find this type
 of loan particularly attractive.
 
Our Flexible Mortgage allows you to
 make additional payments of any amount, at
 any time, without incurring any Early Repayment Charges. So you can make a
 one-off
 payment to bring down the amount you pay
 each month, or continue with your existing
 payments and reduce the term of your
 mortgage. You also have the option to take
 ‘payment holidays’ against any
 overpayments you have made - something you
 may find useful if you’re planning a
 career break or starting a family.
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
A few commonly asked
 questions... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What
 happens at the end of a fixed, capped
 or discounted rate period?
Your mortgage
 simply reverts to our Standard
 Variable Rate of interest applicable
 at the time. You should bear in mind
 that an Early Repayment Charge may
 be payable depending upon the particular
 product if you choose to remortgage
 before the end of any Early Repayment
 Period (these terms are explained
 in the ‘Jargon Buster’ section of this
 guide).
 
How long
 will I pay my mortgage?
We
 normally lend for up to 25 years but you
 can choose a shorter or longer
 
 
 
 
 
period. If
 you think you may be able to pay
 off your mortgage early, but don’t know
 for certain, you might like to consider
 our Flexible Mortgage.
 
Can
 my mortgage be continued if I
 move house?
Yes.
 All Leeds & Holbeck mortgages (with the
 exception of shared ownership products)
 are portable. Please call our helpline on 0113 225 777 for full details as terms and conditions
 apply.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any further
 questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Call
 our helpline on 0113 225 7777
Lines
 are open from 8am to 8pm, seven days a week 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
 
Repayment options explained 
	 
	
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
Once you’ve decided on the type of
 mortgage you want, you’ll need to decide how to
 repay it. Many people consider this to mean deciding
 between a repayment or interest only mortgage - but
 there’s actually more than this to think about.
 
Whichever mortgage you choose, you’ll
 need to repay the capital (the amount you’ve
 borrowed) and pay interest - usually on a monthly
 basis.
 
How and when you repay the capital
 depends on whether you choose to arrange your mortgage on a
 capital and interest or an interest only basis. These
 options are explained in more detail below. 
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
Capital and Interest
 
This arrangement (traditionally known as a
 repayment mortgage) involves paying back the interest and
 part of the capital on a monthly basis until the entire
 amount borrowed is eventually paid back over the mortgage
 term.
 
You’re certain that your mortgage will be
 repaid in full at the end of the term, as long as you make
 all your monthly payments. 
 
You should take careful note of the fact
 that no life cover is included with this type of mortgage.
 We would strongly advise you to protect your family home by
 making sure you’ve enough life cover to pay off your
 mortgage in the event of your death.
 
Interest Only
 
Choose this option and your mortgage
 payments to the Society will consist of interest only. The
 capital should be repaid at the end of the mortgage term
 from the proceeds of an investment set up by you - this
 could be an endowment, a pension, ISA or another existing
 investment. You may select any, or a combination, of these
 options.
 
With an interest only mortgage it is your
 responsibility to make suitable arrangements for the
 repayment of the capital at the end of the mortgage term.
 From time to time you should check with your financial
 advisor that your arrangements are adequate - you should
 remember that your investments may not provide the final
 return you were anticipating. If, at the end of your
 mortgage term, the proceeds from your investments are
 insufficient to repay the capital outstanding, you will have
 to find the deficit from elsewhere. You will also need to
 check whether adequate life cover is included with your
 chosen investment, to ensure that the capital would be
 repaid in the event of your death. Before making a decision
 on which type of investment may be suitable, you should
 check with a financial advisor. Some basic information on
 different types of investment that may be used to repay
 capital at the end of a mortgage term, is set out below.
 
Endowments
 
An endowment policy is effectively a long
 term savings scheme where payments are made into a central
 fund. The fund would usually be invested in the stock
 market. Payments are made directly to the investment or
 insurance company offering the endowment, rather than the
 Society. When an endowment matures the proceeds (or a
 relevant portion if there is a surplus) should be paid to
 the Society to reduce or fully repay the balance
 outstanding. Life cover is included with endowments.
 
Pension
 
Some people choose to use their pension
 plan(s) to repay outstanding capital at the end of their
 mortgage term. The tax free lump sum available from the
 policy on maturity is used to reduce or fully repay the
 balance outstanding (It is important to ensure that maturity
 of the policy coincides with the end of the mortgage term).
 The main consideration for people choosing this option is
 that they will still have sufficient money from their
 pension to live on in retirement. Life cover can be included
 with a pension policy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Things you
 should bear in mind when
 making your choice:
 
 
- 
 
Your age
 
 
- 
 
Your marital
 status
 
 
- 
 
Whether you
 have dependants
 
 
- 
 
The nature
 of your income - is it
 likely to fluctuate or rise?
 
 
- 
 
The amount
 of life assurance and
 investments you hold
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please
 note
 
If you
 pay off all or part of your mortgage
 early, or surrender an investment
 policy before the end of its term,
 there may be adverse financial consequences
 depending on the particular
 type of mortgage or investment.
 Changes in personal circumstances
 (such as long term sickness
 or relationship breakdown) can
 also have adverse financial consequences.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Need
 financial advice?
When you’re choosing
 a repayment option it’s important to bear in
 mind your other financial arrangements - including life assurance
 and investments. Call our helpline on 0113 225 7777 and we will be pleased to arrange an appointment with a qualified Financial
 Advisor who’ll discuss repayment methods and any other
 financial arrangements you may choose to make.
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
How much can I borrow?
 
 
Leeds & Holbeck is a responsible lender. We want to
 make sure that you can comfortably afford the repayments on any amount
 we may lend you. This amount will depend on your income and your present
 financial commitments such as loans, credit card debts and other regular
 expenses. A detailed assessment of whether the Society is able to make
 an offer of a loan for the amount you require will be made once a full
 application is submitted. 
 
The budget planner below will help you work out your
 regular outgoings so you have a clearer idea of how much you would have
 left before making your mortgage payment.
 
 
 Item 
 Monthly Cost 
 Item 
 Monthly Cost 
 
 
 Investments 
 £ 
 Telephone 
 £ 
 
 
 Life policies
 / Health cover 
 £ 
 TV / Video 
 £ 
 
 
 Personal
 pension 
 £ 
 Car running
 costs 
 £ 
 
 
 Loans / 
 hire purchase 
 £ 
 Travel to work 
 £ 
 
 
 Gas / electricity
 etc. 
 £ 
 School /
 nursery fees 
 £ 
 
 
 Water 
 £ 
 Entertainment 
 £ 
 
 
 Council tax 
 £ 
 Clubs /
 hobbies 
 £ 
 
 
 Food &
 groceries 
 £ 
 Holiday 
 £ 
 
 
 Clothes 
 £ 
 Other 
 £ 
 
 
 
 
 Total (a) 
 £ 
 
 
 
 
 Your monthly income (b) 
 £ 
 
 
 
 
 Balance (a+b) 
 £ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Loan Amount 
 Loan to Value 
 Single (up to) 
 Joint (up to) 
 
 
 Up to £150,000 
 100% max 
 3.00 x 
 2.5 x or 3.00 x main
 plus 1 x second 
 
 
 Up to £200,000 
 95% max 
 3.25 x 
 2.5 x or 3.25 x main
 plus 1 x second 
 
 
 Up to £300,000 
 90% max 
 3.25 x 
 2.5 x or 3.25 x main
 plus 1 x second 
 
 
 Up to £400,000 
 85% max 
 3.25 x 
 2.5 x or 3.25 x main
 plus 1 x second 
 
 
 Up to £500,000 
 80% max 
 3.50 x 
 2.75 x or 3.5 x main
 plus 1 x second 
 
 
 Up to £500,000 
 50% max 
 3.75 x 
 3.0 x or 3.75 x main
 plus 1 x second 
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
How much is your income?
The most
 important element in deciding how much we’ll lend you is
 your income. If you’re buying your home with someone else,
 then we’ll consider both of your incomes.
 
Naturally, we’ll consider long-term
 bonuses, overtime and commission provided all payments are
 guaranteed and part of your regular disposable income. We
 will also consider regular overtime, bonus and commission
 but will only include half of the value in our calculations.
 This is how we calculate the maximum amount we’ll lend:
 
To work out how much this means you could be
 able to borrow, simply use the table above. e.g. if your
 salary is £25,000 and your partner’s salary is £10,000,
 your borrowing limit would be £91,250.
 
What's your property worth?
Before we
 make you a mortgage offer, we’ll need to take into account the value
 of any property you’re looking to buy or remortgage if you already own the
 property concerned. This may include arranging for a valuation to be carried
 out. This is solely for our purposes and should not be taken as a guarantee of the
 propertys’ value, nor that the property is in good condition throughout. 
 With this in mind, we recommend that you arrange for a professional surveyor or
 valuer to inspect the property on your behalf. Peace of mind is priceless
 - and we want your new home to be a source of pleasure to you.
 
It’s important that you bear in mind your loan may not cover the total value or
 purchase price of your property. This means that if you’re moving to a new
 home, rather than remortgaging, you may need to use some money of your
 own as a deposit. The Loan to Value (LTV) percentage refers to how much the loan
 will cover of the value or purchase price of your property -
 whichever is lower.
 
What if interest rates go up?
It’s
 worth considering what the effect of any future interest
 rate rises might have on your finances. Even if you choose a
 fixed or capped rate mortgage, the interest rate will
 normally revert to our Standard Variable Rate at the end of
 the Benefit Period (this term is defined in the "Jargon
 Buster" section of this guide). Your Mortgage Advisor
 will be able to help you with budget planning - but it’s
 important that you think carefully about what you can really
 afford.
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
More things to think about
 
Chances are you’ll have a lot to think
 about if you’re considering a new mortgage, especially if
 you’re moving home. We want your move to go through as
 smoothly as possible - and with no nasty surprises - so
 here’s a brief guide to the home moving process, including
 details on some expenses (some of which may also apply to
 remortgage transactions) which it’s all too easy to
 overlook amidst the excitement and activity of moving! 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
A simple guide to the whole
 process 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Sale
 (if applicable) 
 
 
- 
 
Choose an
 estate agent and put
 your home on the market
 
 
- 
 
Put time
 aside for prospective buyers
 to view
 
 
- 
 
Consider
 offers
 
 
- 
 
Accept offer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your
 Purchase
 
 
- 
 
Contact Leeds
 & Holbeck or apply online to agree your
 mortgage in principle
 
 
- 
 
Find the right
 house!
 
 
- 
 
Make an offer
 
 
- 
 
Contact Leeds
 & Holbeck again to finalise
 your mortgage application
 
 
- 
 
We’ll arrange
 for your prospective new
 home to be valued
 
 
- 
 
Appoint a legal
 representative
 
 
- 
 
Arrange a survey
 if required
 
 
- 
 
We issue you
 with a mortgage offer -
 normally within 15 days of
 your application
 
 
- 
 
Exchange
 contracts, pay deposit
 
 
- 
 
Complete
 purchase and sale on the agreed
 date
 
 
- 
 
Congratulations
 - it’s time to move! Leeds
 & Holbeck will continue to give
 you all the help and support you
 need.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
Some expenses to bear in
 mind 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
Stamp Duty
If
 you’re buying a property for more than £60,000 you’ll
 have to pay stamp duty - this is a form of taxation. The
 rates are as follows:
 
 
 Purchase Price 
 Stamp Duty 
 
 
 Less than £60,000 
 0% 
 
 
 £60,000-£250,000 
 1% 
 
 
 £250,000-£500,000 
 3% 
 
 
 More than £500,000 
 4% 
 
 
 
Stamp duty may also be payable if a property
 is transferred from a joint name to a single name or vice
 versa. If you think this may apply ask your legal
 representative for further details.
 
Higher Lending Fee
 
If you’re borrowing an amount greater than
 75% of the value of the property, the Society may charge a
 Higher Lending Fee depending upon the product. The fee will
 normally be deducted from the amount of your mortgage
 advance before completion. Your Mortgage Advisor will
 calculate how much this will be, if applicable.
 
The fee may be used to insure the Society if
 the worst happens and your property is repossessed and
 subsequently sold for less than the amount you owe. You will
 remain liable to pay the full amount owing, including
 arrears interest and legal fees. If our insurers pay a
 claim, generally speaking they will have the right to
 recover the amount from you.
 
Estate Agents
 
Estate agents services are always free to
 the buyer, so you’ll only have to budget for their fees if
 you’re selling your existing home. Fees are usually based
 on a percentage of the sale price, though they may sometimes
 be a fixed amount.
 
Solicitors / Licensed Conveyancer
 
It’s often worth getting a few quotes from
 different firms before appointing a legal representative. It
 will be more cost effective to select a legal representative
 who has been approved to carry out work on behalf of the
 Society. Your Mortgage Advisor will confirm which solicitors
 / licensed conveyancer in your area are able to do this. For
 remortgages the Society is able to offer a competitive ‘in-house’
 service and this may be free with some products.
 
Surveys
 
We always recommend that you have your
 prospective new home surveyed independently. Several
 different levels of report are available, at different
 rates. The Society may be able to arrange this for you at a
 competitive rate. Any survey you have carried out will be in
 addition to the valuation undertaken on behalf of the
 society for which there will be charge.
 
Removals
 
Charges vary considerably - you might like
 to ask at least three removal companies to come to your home
 to assess what will be involved and give you a quote well in
 advance.
 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
Protecting your home
 
Common sense protection
 
It
 makes sense to take a look at your home insurance
 arrangements at the same time as you apply for a new
 mortgage. Your home is such a major investment that you owe
 it to yourself to avoid worries about its protection.
 
We do not tie you to taking out our own
 insurance, but, like all our products, you’ll find our
 Homecover Insurance offers you excellent value for money.
 What’s more, some of our mortgages are discounted when you
 decide to accept Homecover. Your Mortgage Advisor will
 be able to provide full details.
 
All your insurance under one roof
 
Leeds & Holbeck Homecover Insurance
 covers your buildings, contents and personal
 possessions under a single policy. It’s hard to
 imagine a simpler or more straightforward way to protect
 your home.
 
Your cover will also include free Home
 Assistance, offering emergency protection for all kinds
 of household problems including electrical faults, problems
 with internal drains, gas and central heating.
 
It’s easy to protect your home with
 Homecover. There are no complicated calculations or
 time-consuming forms, and no need to list all your
 belongings. To apply you simply tick the box on your
 mortgage application form.
 
What if you’re unable to work?
 
If something prevented you from working for
 a time, the last thing you’d want on your mind would be
 how to meet your mortgage payments.
 
That’s the simple thinking behind Leeds
 & Holbeck’s Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance.
 It’s designed to make sure your mortgage commitment is
 paid if you were unable to work due to an accident,
 sickness, hospitalisation or if you’re made redundant.
 
Unlike some schemes, Mortgage Payment
 Protection Insurance can also be extended to provide cover
 for up to £300 per month towards your household bills
 - so it represents outstanding value. This flexible cover
 gives you the peace of mind you need, at a cost you can
 afford.
 
To take this sensible precaution - which
 we would strongly recommend - all you need to do is tick
 the box on your mortgage application form.
 
The Society is a member of the General
 Insurance Standards Council (GISC) which regulates general
 insurance sales, advisory and service standards to ensure
 general insurance customers are treated fairly. 
 
Terms, conditions and exclusions apply to
 all insurance products offered by the Society. please refer
 to the society’s booklets for standard insurance products
 (or other information provided) which contain essential
 information (as prescribed by GISC).
 
 
	 
 
 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
All the help you need, all
 the way
 
Now you’ve read through
 this Mortgage Information guide and perhaps begun to make
 decisions on your mortgage, you’ll be wondering about taking the
 next step.
 
Our ‘Simple guide to the
 whole process’ explains some of the basic steps in buying and
 selling a home. If you would like to talk through the mortgage
 process in more detail - without any form of obligation, of course
 - you can contact Leeds & Holbeck Direct on 0800 072 5726, or
 your local
 branch.
 
As well as advice on
 mortgage types your Mortgage Advisor will be happy to provide a
 full quotation, approve a decision in principle giving you the
 power to buy with confidence, or help you complete your mortgage
 application form if you’re ready to apply. We’re looking
 forward to helping you make sure that your next move is the right
 one - so book an appointment today!
 
The Society’s mortgage
 products are available via our Direct Operations, Branches, on the
 Internet and via Intermediaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage
 Payment Protection Insurance is provided free of charge for 6
 months on all new Leeds & Holbeck mortgages. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any further
 questions? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Call
 our helpline on 0113 225 7777
Lines
 are open from 8am to 8pm, seven days a week 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
Peace of Mind.
 
The Mortgage Code
Leeds & Holbeck subscribes to The
 Mortgage Code which sets out principles of good lending
 practice.
 
The Code is designed to make sure that you
 can enjoy protection in your dealings with mortgage lenders.
 For the purpose of The Code, the Society can provide a full
 range of information and advice on services. We can provide:
 
 
- 
 
information on a single mortgage product
 only if you have already chosen the specific mortgage
 that meets your needs;
 
 
- 
 
information on our current range of
 products to enable you to choose a suitable mortgage;
 
 
- 
 
 advice and a recommendation of the
 most suitable mortgage product available from us based
 on your particular requirements and the known market
 conditions (the highest level of service under the
 code);
 
 
- 
 
The ten key commitments of the Code are
 set out in the "You and your mortgage" leaflet
 which you will have been given a copy of. Full copies of
 The Mortgage Code are available on request.
 
 
Confidentiality
The Society treats all its customers
 personal information as private and confidential and
 complies with the Data Protection Act 1998.
 
Nothing about your enquiry or accounts will
 be disclosed to anyone unless: 
 
 
- 
 
we are legally compelled to do so;
 
 
- 
 
there is a public duty to disclose;
 
 
- 
 
our interests require disclosure;
 
 
- 
 
you have provided consent.
 
 
You have the right, on payment of a fee, to
 receive a copy of the information we hold about you if you
 apply to us in writing.
 
If you proceed to make an application for a
 mortgage please ensure you read the ‘Use of Personal
 Information’ section of the form.
 
 
	 
 
 
	 
	
 
 
Jargon Buster
 
Leeds & Holbeck’s straightforward
 glossary provides guidance on some common words and phrases
 that you’ll encounter when arranging your mortgage.
 
 
 Application
 Fee - This is a one-off fee payable towards the
 set up costs of some mortgages. It’s not normally
 refundable, even if the mortgage does not complete.
 
Benefit Period - This is the length of
 time that a discounted, fixed, or capped rate applies
 to a mortgage. For example, a mortgage with a two-year
 fixed rate would have a benefit period of two years.
 
Capital - Any sum of money that we may
 lend to you - ordinarily to purchase a property or
 on a remortgage transaction to repay another lender.
 Interest will be payable on capital from the date the
 funds are released by the Society.
 
Completion - The final stage of the
 conveyancing process after exchange of contacts -
 when keys change hands (on a sale or purchase) and
 your mortgage with the Society is set up.
 
Conveyancing - Conveyancing is the legal
 process necessary wherever property or land is bought
 or sold. This is most often carried out by solicitors
 or licensed conveyancers on behalf of buyers and
 sellers.
 
Early Repayment Charge - Many products are
 offered with highly competitive incentives at the
 start of a mortgage term. Such products can only be
 offered on the assumption that you keep your mortgage
 with the Society for a fixed period of time. In such
 circumstances, although you are of course free to move
 house and/or remortgage at any time, an early
 repayment charge will be incurred if you repay (or in
 some cases, partly repay) the Capital within the Early
 Repayment Period.
 
Early Repayment Period - This is the
 period of time during which an Early Repayment Charge
 may be payable. If applicable to the product chosen,
 full details will be set out in any mortgage offer
 made by the Society.
 
Exchange of Contracts - This is the
 process where both parties formally agree to the
 sale/purchase of a property and set a completion date.
 Normally, this is arranged through a solicitor or
 licensed conveyancer.
 
Loan to Value - Often referred to as LTV,
 Loan to Value is a percentage figure used to express
 the amount of the loan as a proportion of the 
 
 
 
property’s value. Different mortgage
 products can have different maximum LTV’s -
 meaning that the minimum amount of deposit required
 (when buying a new home) can vary from one type of
 product to the next.
 
Local Search - Comprises a
 request for a variety of information from the relevant
 local authority, including information on planning
 matters and the maintenance of roads in the vicinity
 of a property. Local searches will usually be carried
 out by your legal representative and can take several
 weeks to complete.
 
Local Search Indemnity -
 Where no Local Search is made, usually on a remortgage
 transaction, an insurance policy can be put in place
 (usually for the benefit of both lender and borrower)
 to cover against any risks that may have been revealed
 by a local search.
 
Mortgage - A familiar term
 but still worth defining. A mortgage is a loan secured
 on property. The mortgage will remain in place until
 Redemption.
 
Mortgage Advisor - A Mortgage
 Advisor is a mortgage specialist who will help you in
 arranging your mortgage. You can contact a Mortgage
 Advisor by calling your local branch, or calling 0800
 072 5726.
 
Mortgage Term - This is
 simply the number of years over which it is
 anticipated a mortgage will remain in place.
 
Premium - The payment for an
 insurance or endowment policy, which can be made
 either by a single payment or regular instalments.
 
Redemption - Repayment of a
 mortgage in full, including interest and costs.
 
References - The checks which
 a lender makes before making a formal mortgage offer.
 These might include asking your employer to confirm
 your income, as well contacting credit reference
 agencies.
 
Remortgage - This is the
 process of changing from one lender to another -
 moving your mortgage but not your home.
 
Standard Variable Rate - The
 Society’s own base lending rate. Mortgages which
 start at concessionary rates will usually revert to
 the Standard Variable Rate after the benefits period. 
 
 
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU
 DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN
 SECURED ON IT
Full written details and
 quotations are available on request.
All loans must be secured by
 a first charge on the property and are subject to appraisal
 of status, financial standing and valuation. Loans are only
 available to persons aged 18 or over.
Leeds & Holbeck Building
 Society is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 The Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing
 Group either directly, or, via Leeds & Holbeck Financial
 Services Ltd who represent only the Norwich Union Marketing
 Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial
 Services Authority. Any financial advice given for life
 assurance, pensions and investments will relate only to the
 products of Norwich Union Marketing Group and Leeds &
 Holbeck Building Society.
100% Mortgages are only available
 to persons aged 21 or over.
	 
 
	
	
	
