
THE CASHBUILD 60 ACCOUNT
THE CASHBUILD 60 ACCOUNT
High interest high return 
 
 This account offers an attractive rate of
 interest for people who want to invest their money for a high return. And because of the
 different levels of interest, the more you invest the higher the interest rate becomes.
 You also know that you can take out your money at any time. If you want a regular income, Cashbuild
 60 offers you the chance to take the interest every month. 
 
 
 How much can I invest? 
 
 
 
 You will need £500 to open a Cashbuild 60
 Account and you can add to this amount at any time. The most you can invest is £250,000
 (or in the case of joint accounts £500,000). These figures may only be exceeded if we add
 on interest. 
 
 
 How much interest do I
 earn? 
 
 
 
 With the different levels of interest we offer
 on Cashbuild 60, when your balance grows you automatically earn a higher rate of
 interest on the total amount in the account. The interest rate we pay will also
 depend on whether you choose to receive your interest monthly or annually.
 (Please check the rates page for the current interest rates and the investment bands). 
 
 
 How and when is interest
 paid? 
 
 
 
 Your money earns interest from the day after
 you invest in your Cashbuild 60 Account until the day you withdraw it. The interest
 is worked out every day on the amount you have in the account. This is done at the
 interest rate band that applies to your account. Interest is paid annually on 31st
 December and this money can be added to your account, paid into your bank account or
 transferred to another of your accounts. If you are investing at least £5,000 you
 can choose to receive interest on a monthly basis, which again can be paid into your bank
 account or transferred to another of your accounts. The interest rate we pay on a
 monthly basis will be slightly lower than if we pay you interest annually. 
 
 
 How and when can I
 withdraw my money? 
 
 
 
 You can gain access to your money penalty free
 by giving us 60 days' written notice. Or you can withdraw money straight away, but you
 will lose 60 days' interest on the amount you take out, even if the account has not been
 open for such a period.
If you wish to transfer money from your
 Cashbuild 60 account to another account held with the Society, the same conditions apply
 as with any other withdrawal.
 
However, you can make up to three separate withdrawals each calendar
 year without giving us notice or losing interest, providing the total amount withdrawn
 during the calendar year does not exceed £15,000 and a minimum balance of £10,000 is
 maintained in the account.
 
 On visiting any one of our branches you can withdraw up to £300 in cash and larger
 amounts by cheque. Please note cheques paid into you account require seven working days to
 clear before withdrawals can be made against them. 
 
 
 How do I open an
 Account? 
 
 
 
 You can open a Cashbuild 60 Account by
 simply calling in at your local branch and filling in an application form. You must hand
 in or send your money at the same time. When you open an account with us we are required
 by law to check your identity.
 
 If you open an account at a branch or agent, we will ask you to provide one original
 document from each of the two groups shown below. If you open an account by post, then we
 will require two original documents from each of the two groups shown below to be sent to
 us. These documents will be returned to you.
Name
 Verification 
 A signed current United Kingdom (full) driving licence
 A current (full) European/UK passport (a British visitors passport is not acceptable)
 A current credit card
 A current cheque guarantee or debit (ATM) card
 An Armed Forces Identification Card
 A known employers identification card (with photograph and signature)
 National Insurance card (under 21's only)
 Full Birth Certificate (under 18's only)
 
Address Verification 
 A council tax bill (under 3 months old)
 A gas or electricity bill (under 3 months old)
 A credit card statement (under 3 months old)
 A senior citizens pension book.
 A notice of tax coding (under 3 months old)
 A Family Allowance/Child Benefit book
 A signed current United Kingdom (full) driving licence (if not used for name verification)
 A TESSA Maturity Certificate
 A current life insurance certificate
 A Mail Order statement (under 3 months old)
 A Mobile Phone statement (under 3 months old)
 A Cable / Sky TV statement (under 3 months old)
 
 If you cannot show us the documents mentioned above, the branch manager may accept other
 forms of identification. 
 
 
 What
 if I decide the account is not for me? 
 
 
 
 Tell us within 14 days of opening the new
 accoount if it does not meet your needs and you can have your money back or switch to
 another account without losing interest. 
 
The Society's defined area of operation for investment business is as
follows:-
 
Essex
 Herts
 
 Beds
 
Cambs
 Norfolk
 Suffolk
 
Middlesex - Postcodes EN1, EN2 and EN3 (Enfield)
 
London - Postcodes N, E, W, NW, SE, SW 
Notes
The passbook must accompany any withdrawal. We may change the interest
rate from time to time - for more information see the Investors Terms & Conditions
leaflet.
To find out the current interest rate please look at the rates pages or
check with any of our branches or agents.
Where required by legislation, interest will be paid or credited after
deduction of income tax at the appropriate rate or subject to the required certification,
gross. Where the tax deducted exceeds an investor's tax liability (if any), a claim may be
made to the Inland Revenue for repayment of tax. For individuals whose income falls within
the lower or basic rate bands, the tax deducted will match their liability to tax on the
interest and they will have no more tax to pay on it. Individuals who are liable to tax at
rates above the basic rate bands will have to pay additional tax on the interest to cover
the difference between the tax deducted and the higher rate tax due.
If you do not have to pay income tax you may fill in form R85 and we
will pay you interest without deduction of tax. Please ask at your local branch for this
form if you need one. If you have any queries on your tax liability you should get in
touch with your Inland Revenue tax office.
You must include the amount of interest you earn in your yearly Income
Tax Return.
 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
The Saffron Walden Herts & Essex Building Society is a member of the
Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services &
Markets Act 2000. Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700,
that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investors total shares and/or deposits, and 90% of
the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including individuals and small
firms. Although most shares and deposits in UK building societies are denominated in
sterling, the euro and other European Economic Area currencies are also covered. 
Further details are available on request from the society.
The Saffron Walden Herts & Essex Building Society operates an
internal complaints procedure details of which are available from all branches.
Saffron Walden Herts & Essex Building Society is a member of the
Financial Ombudsman Services Scheme and subscribes to the Code of Banking Practice.
Data Protection Act
We may make searches about you at credit reference agencies who will
supply us with information, including information from the Electoral Register, for the
purpose of verifying your identity. The agencies will record details of the search
whether or not this application proceeds. The searches will not be seen or used by
lenders to assess your ability to obtain credit. We may use scoring methods to
assess this application and to verify your identity. Credit searches and other
information which is provided to us and/or the credit reference agencies, about you and
those with whom you are linked financially may be used by Saffron Walden Herts & Essex
Building Society and other companies if you, or other members of your household apply for
other facilities including insurance applications and claims. This information may
also be used for debt tracing and the prevention of money laundering as well as the
management of your account. Alternatively, we may ask you to provide physical forms
of identification.
Copies of the Banking Code may be obtained from all of our
branches.
CSBLD60.htm
