
	
	
	
	Chelsea Building Society
	
	
	
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
To go straight to a particular question, just click one of the links 
 below:
 
	 	
 	 
 
 
	
	Who will we lend to?
 What term will we lend over?
 How do you repay the loan?
 Freehold or leasehold?
 What about a valuation?
 How much can you borrow?
 Do we charge a Mortgage Indemnity Fee (Lending Risk 
 Fee)?
 Do we make an early repayment charge on mortgages? 
 
 What are acceptable properties that we will lend on?
 
Over the many years that Chelsea Building Society have been providing 
 mortgages to our customers, many of the same questions have arisen. Below 
 we provide the answers we have given to these questions, together with 
 additional information on the Society's Lending Policy. We hope that it 
 is useful and we would be happy to provide any further information you 
 may require.
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of course all the information relates to residential dwellings being 
 used for owner occupation. 
 
	
 
Who will we lend to?
 The Chelsea will lend to anyone who is at least 18 years old. We will 
 not discriminate against you because of your colour, race, ethnic or national 
 origin, your sex or if you are disabled. However you will need to have 
 the right to reside and work in the UK for at least the duration of the 
 mortgage, be employed by a UK based business, be paid in £ sterling, 
 pay UK tax and be purchasing a property in the UK for your own occupation.
	
 
Up to four people can be joined in an application although as a maximum 
 we will only take into account the income from three applicants. At least 
 one applicant needs to be working (either employed or self-employed) or 
 in receipt of a guaranteed income such as a pension
	
 
You will need to have a good credit history, be able to prove your income 
 and that you have successfully maintained your other financial commitments. 
 Your application will be subject to a credit check.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
What term will we lend 
 over?
 The usual term is 25 years but your loan can be for any term from 5 years 
 to 40 years but should end on or before your normal retirement age. In 
 exceptional circumstances we may agree to extend the term up to your 75th 
 birthday if you are in receipt of income which we regard as guaranteed 
 and which we consider to be sufficient to service the loan. Loans past 
 normal retirement age (where available) are restricted to not more than 
 75% of the purchase price or value (whichever is the lower) of the property.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
How do you repay the loan?
 Chelsea believe in allowing you the freedom to choose which method you 
 would like to repay your mortgage and this method can be either Repayment 
 or Interest Only.
	
 
With a Repayment mortgage you pay interest plus capital each month until, 
 by the end of the term, your mortgage is repaid.
	
 
Alternatively you can make payments of interest only, The monthly payments 
 are lower than a repayment mortgage however, the amount you borrow remains 
 outstanding and will have to be repaid at the end of the mortgage term. 
 This may be done, for example, by linking your Interest Only mortgage 
 to an endowment assurance or personal pension plan. You can also repay 
 the amount borrowed from your own personal resources. It is your responsibility 
 to do this and you should also arrange life assurance to repay the loan 
 in the event of your death.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
What are acceptable 
 properties that we will lend on?
 The Chelsea will lend on most properties which have been built using 
 standard construction methods and materials including modern timber framed 
 property. The Chelsea will not lend on studio flats, bedsits or converted 
 basement flats. Flats in high-rise blocks or those located over business 
 premises may be acceptable depending on the individual circumstances.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
Freehold or leasehold?
 Freehold and leasehold houses are acceptable. Flats and maisonettes must 
 be leasehold. The lease must have at least 55 years to run (or 30 years 
 plus mortgage term if longer) at the date your mortgage is completed. 
 In Scotland properties with feuhold tenure are acceptable.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
What about a valuation?
 The property will be valued by a valuer instructed by the Society. You 
 will receive a copy of the valuation report. However the valuation is 
 not a structural survey and this report may not reveal defects which are 
 important to you but are not important to us. You are therefore strongly 
 advised to obtain a more detailed report for your own use before you commit 
 to the purchase. If you would like our valuer to combine the valuation 
 with a more detailed report for you (i.e. a Homebuyers Report or a full 
 structural survey) this can be arranged for a fee.
	
 
A copy of our Valuation Report will be sent to you, but without acceptance 
 of any liability on our part.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
How much can you borrow?
 The minimum loan is £20,000 although it may be higher depending 
 upon the mortgage product selected. You may borrow to purchase a new property 
 or to replace an existing mortgage from another lender. When replacing 
 an existing mortgage you may be permitted to borrow more than your current 
 loan to finance home improvement or to repay other lending. The maximum 
 loan is £1,000,000.
	
 
How much you can borrow depends upon:
 
 
 
	 
	 
	 a) The Purchase price or value of the property 
	 
	 
	 
 The table below sets out the maximum advance in relation to the purchase 
 price or value of the property. 
 
	 
	 
	
Price or Value
	 (whichever is the lower)
	 
	 
	Maximum Advance
	 
	
	 
	 Up to £150,000 
	 
	95% of value or price*
	 
	
	 
	 £150,001 to £300,000 
	 90% of value or price or £142,500 
	if higher 
	
	 
	 £300,001 to £400,000 
	 85% of value or price or £270,000 
	if higher 
	
	 
	 £400,001 to £500,000 
	 80% of value or price or £340,000 
	if higher 
	
	 
	 £500,001 to £600,000 
	 75% of value or price or £400,000 
	if higher 
	
	 
	 £600,001 to £700,000 
	 70% of value or price or £450,000 
	if higher 
	
	 
	 £700,001 to £1,000,000 
	 65% of value or price or £490,000 
	if higher 
	
	 
	 Over £1,000,000 
	 55% of value or price** 
	
	 
 
	
 
*Our normal maximum advance is 90% although for loans up to £150,000 
 up to 95% will be considered. 
 **The maximum advance may not exceed £1,000,000.
 
	
	 
	 b) Your Income
	 
	 
	 
	 
 The amount you can borrow will also depend upon your income as detailed 
 below:
 
	 
	 
	Up to 75%
	 Loan to Value Ratio*
	 
	 
	75% to 90%
	 Loan to Value Ratio
	 
	 
	Over 90%
	 Loan to Value Ratio
	 
	
	 
	 
	Single
	 
	 
	Joint
	 
	 
	Single
	 
	 
	Joint
	 
	 
	Single
	 
	 
	Joint
	 
	
	 
	 3.5 times 
	income 
	 3.5 times 
	main income plus 1 times second income or 2.75 times joint 
	income 
	 3.25 times 
	income 
	 3.25 
	times main income plus 1 times second income or 2.75 times 
	joint income 
	 3.25 times 
	income 
	 3.25 
	times main income plus 1 times second income or 2.5 times 
	joint income 
	
	 
	
	
 
 
*Loan to value means the amount of your borrowing taken as a percentage 
 of the value of the property.
 
 
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
	
 
Do we charge a Mortgage 
 Indemnity Fee (Lending Risk Fee)?
 A lending risk fee (mortgage indemnity fee) is only charged where a Chelsea 
 Mortgage (with the exception of the Chelsea Prospect Mortgage) is taken 
 out in excess of 90% of the price or value of the property (whichever 
 is lower). The lending risk fee protects Chelsea by reducing the risk 
 on higher percentage loan to value cases. It does not, however, remove 
 or reduce your responsibility for payment of the full mortgage balance.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
Do we make an early 
 repayment charge on mortgages?
 This will depend upon the particular mortgage product chosen. Each Chelsea 
 mortgage product details provided on this web site will give full details 
 of early repayment terms but in all cases of partial or full repayment 
 of a Chelsea mortgage interest is payable up to the end of the month in 
 which the repayment is made.
 
 
 to top 
 
 
 
 
All mortgage pages must be read in conjunction with the Important 
 Information (Mortgages) page. 
 
	
	
	
