
 
 The Mortgage Code
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is a voluntary code followed by most lenders and mortgage 
 intermediaries in their relations with personal customers in the United 
 Kingdom. The Coventry subscribes to the Mortgage Code, and fully supports 
 the principles of good practice outlined in the Code. This means that 
 we promise to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 act fairly and reasonably in all our dealings with you; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ensure that all services and products comply with the Code, even if 
 they have their own terms and conditions; 
 
 
 
 
 
 give you information on our services and products in plain language, 
 and offer help if there is any aspect which you do not understand; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 help you to choose a mortgage to fit your needs, unless you have already 
 decided on your mortgage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 help you understand the financial implications of a mortgage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 help you to understand how your mortgage account works; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ensure that the procedures of our staff follow and reflect the commitments 
 set out in the Code; 
 
 
 
 
 
 correct errors and handle complaints speedily; 
 
 
 
 
 
 consider cases of financial difficulty and mortgage arrears sympathetically 
 and positively; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ensure that all services and products comply with relevant laws and 
 regulations. 
 
 
 
 
 Under the Code there are three levels of service which a mortgage lender 
 or intermediary may provide:
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable for 
 you. When giving advice, we will take care to help you 
 to select the right Coventry mortgage to fit your needs by asking 
 for relevant information about your circumstances and objectives. 
 Our advice will also depend on your particular requirements and on 
 the market conditions at the time. The reasons for the recommendation 
 will be given to you in writing before you complete your mortgage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 information 
 on the different types of mortgage product we offer so that you can 
 make an informed choice of which to take; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 information 
 on a single mortgage product only, if you have already made up your 
 mind. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you buy from our 
 internet site we are able to offer you levels (b) and (c). If you feel 
 you would like advice on the best product for you, please give us a call, 
 or visit any of our branches.
 
 Before you take out your mortgage, we will confirm in writing, the level 
 of service we have provided to you.
 
 If you would like us to send you a full copy of the Code please email 
 us.
 
 Alternatively, visit the Council of Mortgage Lenders site www.cml.org.uk or the Mortgage Code Compliance board at www.mortgagecode.org.uk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©2001 Coventry Building Society 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
