
Cheshire Building Society: Community Support Programme Year To Date 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 Search 
 Site Map 
 Contact Us 
 Help 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
">
 
 
- Community 
 Support 
 
- History
 
- Mutuality 
 
- Testimonials 
 
- Press Room
 
- Group Information
 
- Summary Financial Statement
 
- Your Rights
 
- Accessibility
 
- Member Forums
 
- Sponsorship
 
- Branch Locator
 
- Around And About Cheshire
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community Support Programme Year To Date 2002
Detailed below are the many worthy causes that the Cheshire’s Community Support
Programme has helped so far in 2002.
These events have all fulfilled the criteria set out in our Community
Support Policy. So, if you are looking for some good fundraising ideas you’ve
found the right place.
 
Neuromuscular Centre
Northwich & Crewe
Medical
 
Line Dance - 24 May
 
 
The Neuromuscular Centre focuses on improving the quality of life for people with
muscular dystrophy. One of the main fundraising events held each year is the Line
Dance Extravaganza that is held at Winsford Civic Hall. 300 people take part in the
evening, helping to raise valuable funds for the charity.
 
Anthony Nolan Trust
North West Region
Medical
 
RHS Flower Show - 17/21 July
 
 
The Anthony Nolan Trust aims to maintain the UK's largest register of bone marrow
and stem cell donors. To raise awareness for its cause the charity is creating a
back-to-back garden at the RHS Flower Show at Tatton Park this year. Up to 100,000
visitors are expected to visit the show, helping to raise money and awareness for
the charity. The Cheshire is also committed to providing help in planting the charity
garden. Volunteers will be sought to take part in building up the project and helping
to staff the exhibition during the Flower Show.
 
Boys & Girls Welfare Society
Stockport
Children
 
Cheadle Festival - 15 June
 
 
BGWS aims to give aid, assistance and care to needy, ailing or disabled children
and young people. It also aims to promote education, training and advancement in
life to these young people. To raise profile and awareness, the charity is holding
a large event called The Cheadle Festival, which is being held at its grounds, and
will have a strong local community focus.
 
Children's Adventure Farm Trust
Northwich & Crewe
Children
 
10th Anniversary - 16 June
 
 
CAFT offers residential breaks and activities to groups of terminally ill, sick,
disabled and disadvantaged children in the North West. Many of their referrals come
from other children's charities. This year the charity is celebrating its 10th anniversary,
at its Adventure Farm near Knutsford, by holding an open day in June. They will be
inviting 3000 individuals/businesses in a bid to raise awareness for its long term
financial security. The Cheshire has been a keen supporter of the Adventure Farm
Trust over many years and sees its support as an important part of our ongoing partnership.
 
Halle Concerts Society
Macclesfield
Education
 
David Lewis Centre Project
 
 
The Education Department within the Halle has put together a project for the David
Lewis Centre, Epilepsy charity, based in Alderley Edge. The aim of the project is
to help the pupils to prepare, via different musical experiences, for a new level
of independence which they will encounter at the end of their school life. They will
work with people they don't know, meet musicians and experience a new world of sound.
 The class of young people aged 16+ work with the Halle musicians alongside teachers
and carers to create a piece of music called 'Spider's Web'.
 
Claire House Children's Hospice
Wirral
Hospices
 
Butterfly Bun Bake - 21 September 2002
 
 
During Children's Hospice Week in September, Claire House is organising a Butterfly
Bun Bake to encourage groups, schools and organisations in support of their work by
holding coffee mornings and afternoon teas etc. Last year the Cheshire supported
the Butterfly Bun Bake and the event raised a total of over £10,000 for the children's
charity. Celebrity actress Claire Sweeney has agreed to support the event in 2002.
 
Bolton Hospice
Greater Manchester
Hospices
 
Annual Ball - 14 September 2002
 
 
Bolton Hospice aims to improve the quality of life for its patients with its holistic
approach to care. The Hospice offers pain relief, symptom control and complementary
therapies to terminally ill people of Bolton. This year the hospice is organising
a fundraising event which is taking place at the Last Drop Hotel in Bolton. The profit
raised will go directly towards the running costs of Bolton Hospice,
which has recently opened a Day Care Centre, as well as providing residential facilities
to support local people. The Hospice was recently featured on Cheshire's sponsored
Granada Action TV programme where charities are able to profile their work. As a
result, the Hospice gained 20 new volunteers.
 
Cheshire Wildlife Trust
North West Region
Environment
 
40th Anniversary Appeal
 
 
The aim of Cheshire Wildlife Trust is the protection and conservation of wildlife
and natural heritage within the Cheshire region so that people of all ages can enjoy
our environment. As part of the charity's 40th Anniversary celebrations
they are going to send out appeal leaflets to 180,000 Cheshire households in a bid
to raise funding and public awareness for their cause. Any money raised will be used
to further conservation work in areas such as land management and education, involving
people from the local community.
 
East Cheshire Hospice
Macclesfield
Hospices
 
Art Exhibition - Sept
 
 
The East Cheshire Hospice is sited in Macclesfield but serves the whole area of
East Cheshire, including Wilmslow, Handforth, Poynton, Disley, Congleton, Knutsford
and parts of North West Derbyshire. As part of their annual fundraising, the hospice
organises an Art Exhibition at Macclesfield Town Hall. This year will be the third
Art Exhibition for the hospice and in the previous two years has raised almost a total
of £20,000. The Cheshire has provided funding to facilitate the organisation of the
exhibition.
 
Accrington & District Blind Society
Lancashire
Disabled
 
Charity Concert 28 Sept
 
 
Last year the Accrington & District Blind Society organised their first ever brass
band concert, which was a huge success in the area. The Blind Society was founded
in 1875 to serve the needs of local people and help provide independence and a wide
range of services for its membership of over 200 registered blind and 600 partially
sighted people. Funding has been provided to underpin the costs of staging the charity
concert, which is a fundraising event taking place at King Georges Hall in Blackburn.
 Brighouse & Rastrick Brass Band have agreed to play again this year in concert with
BBC Radio Lancashire's Norman Prince, who will compere the event.
 
The Donna Louise Trust
Northwich & Crewe
Hospices
 
Launch of Community Nursing
 
 
The Donna Louise Trust was established in 1999 after a local child who suffered
from Cystic Fibrosis and died at the age of 16. The overall aim of the Trust is to
provide respite and terminal care for those children who, as a result of illness or
accident, have a life limiting condition. The hospice is based in Stoke on Trent
but serves the South Cheshire area in terms of child care. In 2002 the charity is
launching the start of its Community Nursing Team. Two regional events are being
hosted by respective Lord Mayors at Crewe Town Hall and Congleton Town Hall to promote
the launch of this new venture. This will enable the hospice to offer respite and
community care for terminally ill children and their families who would otherwise
have to travel many miles for hospice care.
 
Raynaud's & Scleroderma Association
Northwich & Crewe
Medical
 
Publicity Campaign
 
 
Raynaud's is a condition where the blood is prevented from reaching the extremities
of the body. Scleroderma also known as systemic sclerosis, is an uncommon rheumatic
disease. The charity was founded in 1982 to help sufferers of these conditions and
their national headquarters is based in Alsager. This year the Association celebrates
its 20th anniversary. Funding has been provided to help publicise the charity's work
nationwide by highlighting this special milestone with posters promoting their work.
 These will be sent with newsletters to GP practices, hospitals, libraries etc. throughout
the UK. February 2002 is the charity's National Awareness Month.
 
Peak & Northern Footpaths Society
Stockport
Environment
 
Newsletter - 3 editions
 
 
The Peak & Northern Footpaths Society aims to create and preserve public rights
of way and open spaces, particularly in Cheshire, Derbyshire and the surrounding region.
 The organisation plays an active part in protecting our environment by monitoring
and supporting rights of way. Funding has been provided to enable the charity to
send out a newsletter to its 850 members three times a year. The charity will also
be working on the application of new legislation being brought in on the Right to
Roam Act.
 
Tim Parry Johnathan Ball Trust
Chester
Children
 
Fashion Show - 3 Oct
 
 
The Trust raises money to support its Peace Centre based in Warrington. The charity's
 aims are to promote tolerance and conflict avoidance by delivering
structured programmes on citizenship, anti bullying and support for victims of political
problems in Britain. Money is needed to keep the Centre open during the day and in
the evenings, which encourages children of all ages to get involved in organised activity.
 The Centre is also open 7 days a week for residentials. To raise money the charity
is holding a Fashion Show on 3 October at the Hanover International Hotel in Warrington.
 
Alzheimer's Society
Macclesfield
Medical
 
Personal Attack Alarms
 
 
The East Cheshire branch of the Alzheimer's Society have received funding for 20
personal attack alarms for their staff and volunteers to protect them and provide
for their safety whilst on duty.
 
Marie Curie Cancer Care
Northwich & Crewe
Medical
 
Masquerade Ball - 17 May
 
 
In Cheshire and South Wirral the money raised by this charity is used to support
the Marie Curie Nursing Service. The nurses offer practical nursing care and support
to people seriously ill with cancer in the comfort of their own home. The service
is funded 50% by Marie Curie and 50% by the NHS. The Masquerade Ball is a fundraising
event which will help to support the costs of providing nursing services in Cheshire.
 
British Dyslexics
Deeside
Disabled
 
Information Pack
 
 
The aims of the organisation are to help parents who have children suffering from
Dyslexia and to provide comprehensive free information about the condition and what
can be done to help alleviate the problems associated with Dyslexia. Funding is provided
to supply free information packs to parents, schools and other organisations dealing
with children with Dyslexia. Over 6000 families with dyslexic children will benefit
from the project in the North West.
 
Cerebral Palsy Sport
Macclesfield
Disabled
 
Boccia Training Weekend - 9/10 Feb 2002
 
 
CP Sport is dedicated to helping people with cerebral palsy to express themselves
through sport. The England and Wales National Boccia Squad hold training weekends
from time to time to assist squad members to prepare for regional, national, British
and world championships, which are taking place in 2002. The Cheshire's support over
the years has enabled the national Boccia squad to reach standards of excellence required.
 Nigel Murray, one of the squad, won a gold medal in the 2000 Paralympic Games.
 
Help The Aged
North West Region
Elderly
 
Cheshire Handy Van Scheme
 
 
The charity's vision is of a future where older people are highly valued and have
lives that are richer and voices that are heard. Their purpose is to secure and uphold
the rights of older people everywhere, working with them to identify their needs and
champion the issues that help them lead better lives. Help the Aged's strategy includes
ways to combat poverty, reduce isolation, defeat ageism and promote quality in care.
 The Cheshire Handy Van Scheme aims to secure the homes of vulnerable older people
living in Cheshire on low income, free of charge. A trained fitter with a fully equipped
van visits people at home to assess their needs and implement safety and security
measures. The Cheshire's donation will pay for all the materials and services for
over 110 jobs. The service also brings peace of mind to a further five people connected
to the older person, thus reassuring friends, relatives, neighbours and carers. The
scheme aims to reduce the fear of crime amongst the older population as well as benefiting
the community as a whole. Home Office statistics show that older people are twice
as likely to be targeted by bogus callers than any other age group and with common
security devices this risk can be reduced by 72%.
 
National Library for the Blind
Stockport
Disabled
 
Library Computers
 
 
The charity aims to offer visually impaired people the same access as sighted people
to traditional, and digital, library and information services. It was established
in 1882. The library is in great demand and feels that its services offer more than
just being able to read a book, it’s about literacy, dependence and to be able to
continue learning. The library services rely on two old and unreliable computers
which is affecting the level of service. The Cheshire's funding will pay to replace
these computers which store the address and information details for all library members.
 
Friends of Leisure
Macclesfield
Disabled
 
Sportsability Club
 
 
The charity supports children and young people with disabilities to become involved
in everyday activities. It encourages youngsters without disabilities to get involved
in leisure activities, to make friends with disabled children, and have fun. The charity
plays an active role in the Macclesfield Borough Disability Forum, an independent
organisation originally started by MBC Leisure Services. One of their key activities
is the Sportsability Club, a Monday evening multi-sports activity session for children
with disabilities and mainstream children. The Cheshire's donation will fund the
support worker costs to enable the youngsters to take part in the scheme.
 
British Red Cross
North West Region
Medical
 
Open Gardens Scheme - 2002
 
 
The British Red Cross responds to people in crisis, not just around the world,
but at home too, providing support to those caught up in disasters such as floods,
rail crashes, bombings and other emergencies. 2002 is the 70th anniversary of the
Open Gardens Scheme which attracts many visitors throughout Cheshire and Lancashire
each summer. Through the partnership with British Red Cross the Cheshire has helped
the charity to raise thousands of pounds through ongoing support of the scheme. The
Open Gardens brochure is distributed to 140,000 people throughout the North West during
the summer months.
 
NCH Action For Children
North West Region
Children
 
Direct Debit Mailing
 
 
In a recent customer mailing regarding converting to Direct Debit arrangement,
a donation element was attached to raise money for NCH, our Cause Related Marketing
partner. A cheque was presented to them recently in the first of many fundraising
activities we have planned.
 
Macclesfield District Volunteer Bureaux
Macclesfield
Education
 
Promotion Leaflets
 
 
The Bureaux's aims are to promote and support voluntary action across the Borough
of Macclesfield. The Bureaux offer information and guidance to prospective volunteers
via promotion leaflets. The Society's donation provided funding for a reprint of
these leaflets.
 
Butterflies
Lancashire
Children
 
Christmas Party - 2 December 2001
 
 
The charity aims to brighten the lives of disadvantaged youngsters in the Wigan
area. Over 120 children attended a Christmas Party recently at Newtown Working Men's
Club. With help from the Cheshire and local firefighters, the party will be a day
to remember.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Back
 to Top
 
 
 
Terms and Conditions&nbsp | &nbsp© Copyright Cheshire Building Society 1998 
 
 
 
 
 
