
New Page 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further
 Advance and
Secured Personal Loan
 
Application
 Form
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please complete, print and sign form before sending to:
 Leeds & Holbeck Direct, Leeds
 & Holbeck Building Society, FREEPOST, 105 Albion St. LEEDS LS1 1YY.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please
 complete using BLOCK CAPITALS and tick boxes where appropriate.
 Please check the information below and enter/sign any amendments.
 If a question is not applicable please enter N/A in the appropriate section.
 Enclose current P60(s) and last 3 months pay-slips when returning form. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant 1
 
 
 
Applicant 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amount to invest 
 
 
 
 £ 
 
 
 
 
 £ 
 
 
 
 
 
Title
 (Mr, Mrs, Miss, Ms, other) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forename(s) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Surname 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of birth 
 
 
 
 / 
 / 
 
 
 
 
 / 
 / 
 
 
 
 
 
Permanent Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postcode 
 
 
 
Postcode 
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone
 number (Home) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone
 number (Work) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Existing LHBS
 Mortgage Account number 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outstanding
 balance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Have you ever
 had a loan? 
 
 
 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Have you ever
 been made bankrupt, insolvent or made arrangements with creditors? 
 
 
 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Have you
 incurred CCJ's for non-payment? 
 
 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 
 
 
 
If Yes, please
 give full details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of
 anyone aged 17 or over other than the applicant who will occupy
 the property 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income (Gross
 basic income/net profit) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overtime/bonus/commission
 (state if guaranteed or not) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employers/Accountants
 name 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Length of time
 employed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employers/Accountants
 address 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postcode 
 
 
 
Postcode 
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone
 number 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Job title and
 employment no. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please state
 all outstanding balance on all credit cards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans
 
 
 
Credit Cards
 
 
 
Loans
 
 
 
Credit Cards
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly
 payment(s) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remaining
 term(s) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do you pay
 child maintenance? 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 
 
 
 No 
 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 No
 
 
 
 
 
If 'Yes',
 please state amount 
 
 
£ 
 
 
 
 
 £
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan
 Requirements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How much do
 you wish to borrow? 
 
 
 
 £ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated
 property value 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purpose of
 Further Advance
Please give specific details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repayment
 term 
 
 
 Existing 
 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please specify 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repayment
 method 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solicitors
 Details (Only required where the loan required is over £50,000)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postcode 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone No. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Use of Personal Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
In considering your
 application we will search your record at a credit reference agency/ies
 who will supply us with credit information, for use in the assessment of
 credit products and other information as well as information from the
 Electoral Register, for the purpose of verifying your identity. They will
 add to your record details of our search, whether or not this application
 proceeds. This will be seen by other organisations carrying out later
 searches.
We may use a credit scoring or other automated decision
 making systems to assess your application and verify your identity. Credit
 searches and other information which is provided to us and/or the credit
 reference agencies, about you and those with whom you are linked
 financially may be used by Leeds & Holbeck Building Society and other
 companies if credit decisions are made about you or other members of your
 household.
It is important you give us accurate information. We
 will check your details with a fraud prevention agency/ies and, if you
 give us false or inaccurate information and we suspect fraud, we will
 record this.
We and other organisations may use and search these
 records to:
 Help make decisions about credit and credit related services, for
 you and members of your household;
 
 Help make decisions on motor, household, credit, life and other
 insurance proposals and insurance claims, for you and members of your
 household;
 Trace debtors, recover debt, prevent fraud, and to manage your
 accounts or insurance policies;
 
 Check your identity to prevent money laundering, unless you furnish
 us with other satisfactory proof of identity.
By stating a financial association with another
 party, you are also declaring that you are entitled to:
 
 Disclose information about your joint applicant and/or anyone else
 referred to by you
 
 Authorise us to search, link and/or record information at credit
 reference agencies about you and/or anyone else referred to by you.
Information held about you by the Credit Reference
 Agencies may already be linked to records relating to one or more of your
 partners. For the purposes of this application you may be treated as
 financially linked and your application assessed with reference to any
 "associated" records
An "association" between joint applicants
 and/or any individual identified as your financial partner, will be
 created at credit reference agencies, which will link your financial
 records. You and anyone else with whom you have a financial link should
 understand that each other’s information will be taken into account in
 all future applications by either or both of you. This linking will
 continue until one of you successfully files a "disassociation"
 at the credit reference agencies.
We, the credit reference agency/ies and the fraud
 prevention agency/ies will also use the records for statistical analysis
 about credit, insurance and fraud.
Please telephone us on freephone (0500 255777) if you
 want to have details of those credit reference and fraud prevention
 agencies from whom we obtain and with whom we record information about
 you. You have the right of access to your personal records held by credit
 and fraud agencies.
This paragraph applies in relation to any insurance
 which you may apply for as part of your application. Insurers and their
 agents share information with each other to prevent fraudulent claims and
 to assess whether to offer insurance, including the terms, via the Claims
 Underwriting Exchange register, operated by Insurance Database Services
 Limited ("IDS Limited"). A list of participants is available on
 request. In dealing with your application this register may be searched.
Information (including medical information and
 information about pending or actual criminal convictions) which you
 provide or we obtain through your dealings with us (including the conduct
 of your account) will be held on the Society’s computers and in other
 records and may be used as described above. If you do not repay in full
 and on time, we may tell credit reference agencies who will record the
 outstanding debt. We may pass on such information as follows:
 
 To any organisation to which you apply for an insurance product as
 part of your application.
 
 To the credit reference agency/ies and the fraud prevention agency/ies
 mentioned above to be included in their records.
 
 To IDS Limited together with details of any claim so that it can be
 put on their register and made available to insurers. IDS Limited may
 also make available to us relevant information it has received from
 other insurers about claims you have made.
 
 To any employer, accountant, bank, landlord or mortgagee from whom
 we seek a reference about you and to any solicitor, licensed
 conveyancer, or financial intermediary, acting for you.
 
 To subsidiary and associated companies of the Society who may use it
 for marketing purposes as mentioned below. You can ask us for a list
 of such companies.
 
 To anyone to whom we transfer or may transfer our rights and duties
 under our agreement with you.
 
 Any persons who guarantees payment of your account to us.
 
 If we have a duty to do so or if the law allows us to do so.
 
 To our regulators including the Financial Services Authority,
 General Insurance Standards Council and Mortgage Code Compliance
 Board.
We and our subsidiary and associated companies
 ("the Group") may inform you (by mail, telephone, e-mail or
 otherwise) about products and services (including those of other companies
 and organisations) which the Group considers may be of interest to you.
 Please tick the box in the consent section if you do not wish to
 receive details through our Group marketing programme.
We may monitor and/or record your telephone
 conversations with the Society to ensure consistent service levels
 (including staff training).
You have a right, on payment of a fee, to receive a
 copy of the information we hold about you if you apply to us in writing.
 
Declaration
1. I/We agree to become
 bound and abide by the rules of the society
2. I/We declare that I
 am/We are aged 18 or over and that the information given by me/us is
 true and shall form the basis of the loan agreement between the Society
 myself/ourselves. If such information is incorrect I/We will make
 good any loss the society may suffer by acting in reliance on that
 information.
3. I/We understand that the Society will not make an
 offer of advance and will not return any fee's if the property of
 references are unsatisfactory. I/We understand the payment of fee's will
 not bind the Society to grant any advance.
4. I/We give permission to
 the Society to discuss with the Inland Revenue information which I/We
 have supplied in relation to my current tax reference, national
 insurance number and employment details together with earnings from the
 previous tax year.
5. If a valuation is required I/We understand that
 the valuers report is not a structural survey and that if a structural
 survey is required it must be obtained independently ay my/our
 expense. The valuers report is only for use of the Society to
 enable it to decide whether the property is a suitable security for any
 advance made and does not imply that the price paid is reasonable, nor
 that the property is constructed of sound materials.
I can confirm
 that this application has been completed with correct and full details and
 hereby apply for the loan stated, I also confirm that I have read and
 (where appropriate) agree to be bound by the "declarations".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Consent
 
 
 
 I
 have read the section entitled "Use of Personal Information". 
 By signing this form I consent to the uses and disclosures of
 information listed.
 
If you do not wish your personal information to be used for
 marketing purposes please tick this box 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant 1
 
 
 
Applicant 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where did you
 hear about this account?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Office use only
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Branch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source of
 Lead 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
