
Company Profile Home Page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Background 
 Directors 
 Market
 Overview 
 Mortgage
 Process 
 Strategy 
 
 
 
 Market Overview
 
The
 UK mortgage market
 
 
 
Mortgages
 are the largest single lending asset class in the UK.
 The mainstream mortgage market is dominated by former building
 societies. New entrants are now challenging this
 dominance.
 
 
 
Since
 the end of the Second World War, mortgage lending in the UK has
 grown rapidly, primarily driven by a dramatic expansion in levels of
 home ownership. Levels of owner-occupation in the UK are now higher than those found
 in the US and Canada.
 
 
 
 
 
Origins
 of the non-conforming mortgage market
 
 
 
The
 non-conforming mortgage market &#150; also known as &#147;alternative&#148;
 or &#147;non-standard&#148; &#150; comprises potential borrowers who are
 unable to obtain mortgage loans from the traditional lenders because
 they do not meet their normal lending criteria. These people may
 include the self-employed, independent or short-term contractors,
 older borrowers, temporary and part-time workers, individuals with
 varying levels of income, borrowers requiring larger loans, people
 self-certifying their income and people with previous credit
 problems (e.g. CCJs against them). 
 
 
 Kensington provides loans to
 these categories of potential borrowers, provided they meet
 Kensington&#146;s lending criteria, and it charges interest rates on
 their loans which are higher than average bank and building society
 rates available to conforming borrowers.
 
 
 
Limited
 direct participation by traditional lenders
 
 
 
Direct
 participation by the traditional lenders in the non-conforming
 mortgage market has been limited for a number of reasons:
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
traditional
 lenders incurred losses during the property crash experienced in
 the UK in the early 1990s. In response, they tightened their
 lending criteria which resulted in a greater market for
 non-standard lending;
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
the
 difficulty of building extensive relationships with brokers and
 packagers who specialise in the non-conforming mortgage market;
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
traditional
 lenders are looking to diversify into other markets outside the
 mortgage sector altogether in search of growth opportunities.
 
 
 
 
Non-conforming
 mortgage providers
 
 
 
There
 are three broad groups of participants in the non-conforming
 mortgage market in the UK: 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
independent
 specialist UK non-conforming mortgage lenders (including
 Kensington) and those supported by large financial institutions;
 
 
 
- 
 
traditional
 lenders (both banks and building societies) entering the
 non-conforming mortgage market directly; and
 
 
 
- 
 
 traditional
 lenders with a business unit or subsidiary operating in the
 non-conforming mortgage market.
 
 
 
 
Independent
 specialist UK non-conforming mortgage lenders
 
 
 
There
 are a number of specialist lenders whose core business is lending in
 the UK non-conforming mortgage market and which are independent of
 the UK mainstream lenders. Most have built up their operations in
 the UK over the last five years. Amongst these, some have been
 promoted by sub-prime lenders from the US, some have their origins
 in general UK residential mortgage lending and some, including
 Kensington, were founded specifically to enter this part of the UK
 residential mortgage market.
 
 
 
Traditional
 lenders lending directly
 
 
 
Traditional
 lenders have been attracted to the non-conforming market by the
 potential for higher margins as heavily discounted and cash-back
 products are not yet a feature of the sector, thus providing the
 opportunity to increase the number of borrowers paying their
 standard variable rate or higher. Examples of traditional lenders
 who have entered the non-conforming mortgage market directly include
 Chelsea Building Society and Bristol and West (a subsidiary of Bank
 of Ireland) which entered the market in the first half of 1999.
 
 
 
Subsidiaries
 of traditional lenders
 
 
 
In
 the late 1980s, both the mainstream lenders and non-standard
 specialists were attracted to the non-conforming mortgage market. Examples include
 Bradford and Bingley&#146;s acquisition of Mortgage Express, Abbey
 National&#146;s acquisition of Household Mortgage Corporation and,
 more recently, Britannia's acquisition of Platform Home Loans and GE
 Capital's acquisition of igroup.
 
 
 
Regulation
 
 
 
Although
 there is currently limited direct regulation of Kensington&#146;s
 mortgage lending (it does not make loans of £25,000 or less which
 would be regulated under the "CCA"), its Origination Subsidiaries are
 required to maintain a "CCA" license issued by the Office of Fair
 Trading. 
 
 
The
 appropriate companies in the Group (including Origination
 Subsidiaries) have licenses under the Data Protection Act 1998.
 Where appropriate, the Origination Subsidiaries have Approved Lender
 status from the "DETR" to enable them to make
 loans to borrowers exercising a &#147;Right to Buy&#148; their home under
 the provisions of the Housing Act 1985.
 
 
Following
 its review of mortgage regulation, the Treasury announced in January
 2000 that lenders will be required to be authorised by the
 Financial Services Authority whose remit will cover advertising, a
 standard disclosure regime, and a complaints procedure overseen by
 the Financial Services Ombudsman. Kensington actively supports the
 mortgage
 regulation initiative and has contributed to the consultation process.
 
 
 
Kensington
 is a member of the "CML" and subscribes to the "CML" Code, which
 prescribes minimum standards in respect of all aspects of
 residential mortgage lending from initial marketing to lending
 procedures and ongoing conduct of mortgage accounts. Membership and compliance with the
 "CML" Code is
 voluntary. Kensington is also registered with "MCCB", the body which
 monitors compliance by lenders and mortgage intermediaries with the
 "CML" Code and is a member of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders&#146;
 Association, "IMLA". Kensington requires all its business introducers to
 subscribe to the "CML" Code and to be registered with the
 "MCCB".
 
 
 
Kensington
 aims to adopt best lending practices as well as to comply with the
 applicable laws and
 
 regulations
 affecting its business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2002 Kensington Group plc
 
 
