	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	All products and services
	Home
	Mortgages
	Savings
	Life Insurance
	
	Travel Money
	Money Transfer
	Contact Us
	Your Society
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	
	
	Contact Us...	by:	Telephone	Branch Locator	Contact Form	Survey	 	
	
Tell us what you think of our site
	Here at the West Brom, we value your opinion.
	Help us to help you by filling in the quick survey and you could win £25 in Marks & Spencers vouchers.	
At the end of each month we'll enter all the completed surveys into a draw and the winner will be notified in writing.	
We promise your answers will only be used to improve our site and we won&#146;t try to sell you anything as a result of taking part.
	
	
	How often do you visit our web site? 	
	 	
First time
	all the time
	Regularly
	Occasionally
	Rarely
	 	
	 	 	
	What would make you visit more often ? 	
	 	 	
	 	 	
	What type of information do you get from our site ?
	(tick all that apply) 	
	 	
Savings and investments
	Mortgages
	Info on the Society
	Privileged Membership
	Branch locations
	Telephone numbers 	
	 	 	
	Is there anything you would like to see added to the site ? 	
	 	 	
	 	 	
	How easy is it to navigate around our site? 	
	 	
Very easy
	Quite easy
	Average
	Difficult
	 	
	How could we best improve navigation ? 	
	 	 	
	 	
	How do you like the design/ look of the site?
	 	
	 	
Love it
	Like it
	Indifferent to it
	Dislike it
	 	
	How could we best improve the design?
	 	
	Notes: 	 	
	 	 	
	Overall how would you rate our site compared to other Financial Services sites you have visited?
	10	9	8	7	6	5	4	3	2	1	
(Score out of 10 where 10 is exceptional and 1 is appalling). 	
	 	 	
	Complete your name and address details to have a chance of winning	
* =Required field 	
	
Name: * 	 	
	
Address: * 	 	
	
Tel (daytime): 	 	
	
Tel (evening): 	 	
	
Fax: 	 	
	
Email: * 	 	
	 	 	
	 	 	
	Thanks for taking part. We will write to the lucky winners. 	
	
Monthly FREE Draw Rules: No purchase necessary. Must be over 18 years to enter. Not open to employees of the West Bromwich Building Society. Closing date: final Friday of each month. Draw will take place on the following Monday (or next working day, if Public Holiday). The first entry drawn each month will receive £25 of M & S vouchers. No cash alternative will be offered.	
 	 	
	 	 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
For help and professional advice,
	 fill in the details below
	and we'll call you back. 
	
	
	
Enter your full phone number: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Enter your name and extension number (if applicable): 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Call me:
	
	Now
	In 5 Minutes
	In 10 Minutes
	In 15 Minutes
	In 30 Minutes
	In 1 Hour
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Please note: Lines are open 8.30am -7pm Monday to Friday, 9am - 12noon Saturday. We can only service calls from the UK.
Remember, if you only have one phone line and are using it to connect to the Net, you will need to hang up so we can ring you. 
	
	
	 
	
 	
	 	 	 	
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for Life Assurance, Pensions and Investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of the Society and Norwich Union. These pages are only for the use of those persons who are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK. The Society accepts no responsibility for the content held on other websites to which you may be directed. The society is a member of the Financial Services Ombudsman and is a signatory to the Banking Code and the Mortgage Code. To obtain copies of these codes, please click on the relevant link. Copies are also available in our branches.
	
Worried about security? Then view our security and privacy policy. 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	© West Bromwich Building Society 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
