
Ipswich Building Society - Financial Security
KEEP A CHECK ON YOUR FINANCIAL SECURITY
Life Protection
If you have someone who is financially reliant upon you
what would they do if you were to die?
Regular bills and expenses would still need to be paid. If you have
a mortgage or other loans these repayments would
still need to be met.
Life cover can help you provide for your loved ones by giving them a
cash lump sum or regular income should the
unforeseen occur. Outstanding debts can be repaid
and financial worries can be removed. You can
tailor the cover to meet your budget and also
choose cover for as long as you need it. A
savings element can also be built into the plan.
 
Income and Health Protection
If you fall ill or have an accident and can't work how
long will your employer pay you?
If you can't return to work will you be able to survive
on State Benefits? If you are
self-employed what will happen to your business?
An income replacement plan can provide you with
an income when you need it most. The benefits are
not taxable (the law relating to taxation is
liable to change and cannot be foreseen) and will
continue until you are able to return to work.
What if you contract a serious illness and are unable to
work? Life assurance policies will
not pay out until death and nowadays more and
more people recover from critical conditions and
continue with their lives. Policies can provide a
lump sum to enable you to cope with a changing
lifestyle or even to repay your mortgage for
example.
 
Income in Retirement
If you were to retire tomorrow how much money would you
need to EXIST? How much money would you WANT to
enable you to enjoy your retirement?
When you stop working your circumstances and
goals change. We can help you plan for your
future. It's never too late to start!
Savings and Investments
Is there anything which you want to save for? Whether you have a
regular amount which you want to put aside or a
lump sum which you want to make more of there are
many options open to you. You might be concerned
about inflation reducing the value of your
savings? Depending upon what sort of return and
access you require a plan can be tailored to suit
your needs.
These products can fit along-side your building society accounts to
give you a spread of "investments".
 
Paying Less Tax
If you are employed or have savings and investments the chances are
that you are paying tax.
There may be ways of helping you pay less - talk to us now by asking
for a non-obligation "Financial check-up".
 
If you'd like to find out more we will be happy to arrange an appointment
at a time to suit you.
Ipswich Building Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group,
members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for life assurance, pensions and
investments. Any financial advice given on life assurance,
pensions and investments will relate only to the products of
the Society and Norwich Union.
Full written details available on request.
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER
LOANS SECURED ON IT.
Page Last Updated:
03/12/2001
