
Equity Release Mortgage
 
 
 
 
homebuyers 
 | Equity Release Mortgage
 
The Equity Release 
 Mortgage is a special kind of loan designed for homeowners aged 70 and 
 over, which enables you to release cash from your home without having 
 to sell it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Receive a cash lump sum
 
Your home is probably 
 your greatest asset. Think what you could do if you released some of 
 its value. For example, you could buy an annuity to supplement your 
 income; improve your home or help care for your family's needs by helping 
 with education costs. The Equity Release Mortgage allows you to do this.
 
No mortgage repayments 
 to be made
 
With the Equity 
 Release Mortgage, unlike a conventional mortgage, there is no set repayment 
 date and no mortgage repayments to be made. Instead, the mortgage is 
 repayable through the sale of your property, if you move into long-term 
 care/sheltered accommodation or when you die. The amount repayable will 
 include the amount borrowed and interest accrued over the mortgage term.
 
Lifetime Occupancy 
 Guarantee
 
We guarantee that 
 you can live in your home as long as you wish. If your spouse or partner 
 dies or has to go into long term care, nothing changes - you are secure 
 to carry on living in your home as before.
 
No Negative Equity 
 Guarantee
 
If the outstanding 
 mortgage debt is greater than the sale price of the property and you 
 have complied with the terms and conditions of this loan, we guarantee 
 that your estate will not have to repay the shortfall.
 
Continue to Enjoy 
 the Financial Benefits of Home Ownership
 
The Equity Release 
 Mortgage enables you to keep ownership of your home, so any increases 
 in value over the years will benefit you. However, you need to bear 
 in mind that property prices can fall as well as rise.
 
Variable Interest 
 Rate of 6.05% (6.10% APR#)
 
The interest on 
 your mortgage will be set 1% above Newbury Building Society's standard 
 variable mortgage interest rate, currently 5.05%. Interest is charged 
 on an annual rest basis, which means that interest is charged for the 
 whole year on the mortgage balance at the beginning of the year (1 November). 
 This interest charge is adjusted each time Newbury Building Society's 
 interest rate changes. Please see our 'typical' example below.
 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
Available to applicants 
 aged 70 years and over. In the event of joint ownership, both applicants 
 must have reached the age of 70. Birth certificates are required. 
 
Available on properties 
 that are mortgage free (any existing mortgage must be repaid using the 
 proceeds of our mortgage advance). 
 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
A £200 arrangement 
 fee is payable, which will be deducted from the funds on completion 
 of your mortgage.
 
We will need to 
 value your home to ensure it is suitable security for the mortgage. 
 There is a charge for this, which varies according to the valuation 
 figure. Please see our Current Mortgage Terms 
 and Valuation Fees.
 
No early repayment 
 charges. This means that if you decide you want to repay (in part or 
 full) your Equity Release Mortgage early, you can do so without charge. 
 
 
All legal fees are 
 payable by you. This will include charges for independent legal advice 
 as well as for the mortgage transaction.
 
The cash lump sum 
 is issued by telegraphic transfer to your solicitor on completion of 
 your mortgage. A telegraphic transfer fee will be deducted from the 
 monies. See Administration 
 Fees for details.
 
We do charge administration 
 fees for specific mortgage services required during the life of the 
 mortgage. Please see our Administration 
 Fees.
 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
The 
 Equity Release Mortgage is available from 15 April 2002. A written quotation 
 is available on request.
 
To apply for the 
 Equity Release Mortgage you must be at least 70 years old. All loans 
 are subject to status and independent valuation.
 
Minimum loan is 
 £25,500. Maximum loan to value is 25%.
 
We require all applicants 
 to take independent legal advice on the mortgage contract they are entering 
 into. We will require a certificate from the solicitor confirming you 
 have taken this advice.
 
We strongly recommend 
 that you discuss your intention to apply for an Equity Release Mortgage 
 with your next of kin, immediate family or any other person having an 
 interest in the property, before applying.
 
The cash lump sum 
 is tax free but if you choose to invest it, the return on your investments 
 may be taxable and may affect your tax status. In some instances a cash 
 windfall could also affect your entitlement to state benefits. This 
 will depend entirely on your financial circumstances. Please take advice 
 on this important aspect of your mortgage application.
 
We require that 
 you have satisfactory buildings insurance to at least the value of the 
 sum assured given by the Valuer. You do not have to arrange your buildings 
 insurance through Newbury Building Society, although we will be pleased 
 to give you a quote.
 
Your property is 
 required as security for the loan. We reserve the right to 
 re-inspect the property at regular intervals but no more than once every 
 three years.
 
Registered intermediaries 
 receive a fee when introducing mortgages to us, which if applicable, 
 will be disclosed to you.
 
The Society frequently 
 discloses black and white data on mortgage customers to a credit reference 
 agency. This procedure has strict rules in order to protect account 
 holders and has been approved by the Information Commissioner.
 
 
#Typical 
 Example
 
 
 
 
 Current Property 
 Value 
 £200,000 
 
 
 Age of Borrower 
 70 years 
 
 
 Loan 
 £50,000 
 
 
 Variable Mortgage 
 Interest Rate
 (figures assume interest rate does not change) 
 6.05% (6.10% 
 APR) 
 
 
 Arrangement 
 Fee 
 £200 
 
 
 Valuation Fee 
 £175 
 
 
 Property Sale 
 after 
 15 years 
 
 
 Amount Payable 
 on Property Sale 
 (original cash lump sum plus rolled up interest) 
 £120,678.54 
 
 
 Total Amount 
 Payable
 (original lump sum, rolled up interest, arrangement fee, valuation 
 fee and typical solicitors costs of £300) 
 £121,353.54 
 
 
 
To 
 help you monitor your mortgage, we will send you a statement each year 
 showing you details of the mortgage balance outstanding, interest charged 
 and any administration fees charged to your account.
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 CHECK THAT YOUR MORTGAGE WILL MEET YOUR NEEDS IF YOU WANT TO MOVE OR 
 SELL YOUR HOME OR YOU WANT YOUR FAMILY TO INHERIT IT. IF YOU ARE IN 
 DOUBT, SEEK INDEPENDENT ADVICE.
 
The 
 Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members 
 of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life 
 assurance, pensions and investments. Any financial advice given will 
 relate only to the products of the Society and Norwich Union.
 
Newbury Building 
 Society participates in the Financial 
 Ombudsman Service. 
 We have a formal complaints procedure, a copy of which is available 
 on request from your local branch. Most complaints we cannot settle 
 may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. We comply with the 
 Mortgage, 
 Banking and GISC 
 Codes - copies are available from our branches. You have the right under 
 the Data Protection Act 1998 to know what personal data is held about 
 you and to ask for any inaccuracies to be corrected. Please write to 
 Head Office if you do not wish to receive marketing material.
 
 
It 
 is important to read our mortgage information page 'Your Mortgage Facts', 
 click here. 
 
 
 
 
contact 
 us 
 for further information on our Equity Release Mortgage, or alternatively 
 register online with tell 
 me 
 for regular news updates on Newbury Building Society products. 
 
Head 
 Office address:
 17 Bartholomew Street,
 Newbury,
 Berks
 RG14 5LY
 tel: 01635 555700
 fax: 01635 555799
 e-mail: mail@newbury.co.uk 
 
 
new 
 enquiries hotline: 01635 555700 
 
Back 
 to menu
 
links 
 | 
 admin 
 fees | calculator 
 | 
 terms & valuation fees 
 | long 
 term value | mortgage 
 facts 
 
 
 
