
Questions & Answers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > Home > Help Yourself > Questions & Answers > Savings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Calculators
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Apply Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jargon Buster
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Questions & Answers
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 Savings 
 
 
 
 
 Insurance 
 
 
 
 
 A Career with the Portman 
 
 
 
 
 Mutuality 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Branch Finder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Site Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have tried to anticipate, and answer, all of the questions we
think you may have about Saving with the Portman. However, if you have a
question that has not been covered in the Q&A, please contact us.
To make it easier, we have separated the Q&A into sections, simply click on the link
relating to your question to find out more.
 
- Opening a new account
 
- Making withdrawals
 
- Change of name or address
 
- Charges
 
 
- 
Non-taxpayers
 
- Interest
 
- Tax-free savings
 
- Fixed Interest Bonds
 
- If someone dies
 
- Membership
 
- To make a complaint
 
- General
 
Opening a new account
 
- I want to open a new account with the Portman, but I am unable to provide all the identification required as detailed
on the application form. What do I do?
 
- Why do I need to provide identification before I can open an account? After all, I am giving you money.
 
- Why can't a driving licence serve as two forms of identity?
 
- Who can open an account?
 
- Will my account be a share account?
 
- Do you operate postal accounts?
 
Making withdrawals
 
- Can I make a withdrawal from my account without my passbook?
 
- How do I make a withdrawal if I don't live near to a Portman branch?
 
- How much can I withdraw?
Change of name or address
 
- How do I inform you of a change of name and/or address?
 
- Why can't I change my address over the telephone?
 
Charges
 
- Which charges apply to my savings or cheque book account?
Non-taxpayers
 
- I am not a taxpayer. Can I claim my interest gross?
 
- Do I need to sign an R85 for each of my accounts?
Interest
 
- Is tax payable on my interest?
 
- In which national newspapers do you advertise changes to savings interest rates?
 
- When do I start earning interest on my money?
 
- When does the interest get credited?
Tax-free savings
 
- What is the penalty incurred by closing a TESSA before maturity?
 
- Can a person have both an ISA and a TESSA Only ISA?
 
- Who can apply for a Mini Cash ISA?
 
- Can I close my ISA?
 
- Can an ISA be closed at a branch? (See Branch Finder)
Fixed Interest Bonds
 
- Can I close an Income Bond at a branch? (See Branch Finder)
 
- My Bond account is due to mature. What should I do?
If someone dies
 
- What should I do to close a savings account upon the death of the account 
holder?
 
- Can I take over an account from a deceased investor and still have voting 
rights?
 
- I need to pay inheritance tax before I am able to obtain grant of probate. Will 
the Portman be able to help me?
Membership
 
- If I open a Savings account, will I be a member of the Society?
To make a complaint
 
- How do I make a complaint?
General
 
- Why can't you give me information over the telephone about my account?
Opening a new account Q&A
I want to open a new account with the Portman, but I am unable to provide all the
identification required as detailed on the application form. What do I do?
Please contact your local branch (see Branch Finder) or 
telephone our Contact Centre on 01202 560560 for guidance. Lines are open on Monday to Friday from 8.30am to
6.30pm and on Saturday from 9am to 12.30pm.
Why do I need to provide identification before I can open an account? After 
all, I am giving you money.
To comply with the Money Laundering Regulations we require at least two forms of identification before a new 
investor can open an account with us. Where an account is opened via the post, we require four forms of 
identification (two personal and two address).
Why can't a driving licence serve as two forms of identity?
It is a requirement of the Money Laundering Regulations that two separate forms of identity are provided, 
one personal and one address.
Who can open an account?
You can apply as an individual, jointly, or as
a trustee. Only individuals can apply for an ISA, TESSA Only ISA, Prestige Gold
Account, or Prestige Cheque Account. ISAs and TESSA Only ISAs can only be held
in a sole name. You can open a Young Saver Account as trustee for any child up
to 16 years of age.
Will my account be a share account?
Savings accounts are share accounts, as defined by our rules, with the exception of deposit accounts and
corporate cheque accounts.
Do you operate postal accounts?
Not as such, but if you do not live near one of our branches (see Branch Finder) you can open and
transact certain accounts through the post via the Service Centre, Portman House, 
Richmond Hill, Bournemouth BH2 6EP.
Making withdrawals Q&A
Can I make a withdrawal from my account without my passbook?
Unfortunately not. The account terms and conditions are quite specific
on this point. The passbook maintains a record of the balance of an account, and
may not accurately reflect the true position if withdrawals without the passbook
are allowed.
We put great importance on the protection of our investors' accounts
and need to see your passbook to ensure that the withdrawal is properly
authorised.
How do I make withdrawal if I don't live near to a Portman branch?
Send in a written request with your passbook to our Service Centre at Portman 
House, Richmond Hill, Bournemouth BH2 6EP. Please ensure that you make 
your instructions
clear ensuring to state to whom you want the cheque to be payable, and where you want it to be sent.
How much can I withdraw?
On accounts that allow you to make partial
withdrawals, you may withdraw up to £1,000 in cash or £100,000 by cheque in any
one day from a branch (see Branch Finder). Higher cheque withdrawals are dealt
with by Head Office.
Change of name or address Q&A
How do I inform you of a change of name and/or address?
If you live in the vicinity of a branch (see Branch Finder) you can amend your details at the counter,
provided that you show your passbook or provide acceptable proof of identity. Alternatively, please write to 
us at the Service Centre, Portman House, Richmond Hill, Bournemouth
BH2 6EP enclosing full details including copies of any relevant documents,
e.g. Marriage certificate, deed poll etc. If you are changing your name you must
include your passbook.
Why can't I change my address over the telephone?
We put great importance on the protection of our investors'
accounts. We therefore require signed instructions to change your address, to
ensure that the amendment is properly authorised.
Charges Q&A
Which charges apply to my savings or cheque book account?
The following is a summary of the main charges that may apply to your savings or cheque book account. All 
charges include VAT where applicable. 
 
- Cheques, standing orders, or direct debits from your account which would make your account overdrawn £25.00 
per item.
 
- Letters in respect of overdrawn accounts £25.00 per letter.
 
- Stopped cheques on cheque book accounts (other than lost or stolen) £8.00 for each cheque. (Cheques drawn from 
accounts, which do not offer personal cheques, or those guaranteed by a cheque card cannot be
stopped - unless lost or stolen where there is no charge.) 
 
- Cheques credited to your account but returned to us unpaid by the paying Bank or Building Society. £10.00 
for each cheque.
 
- Duplicate statements on cheque book accounts £3.00 for each sheet.
 
 The Society may vary or make additional charges for other facilities requested. 
Any increase in charges will be advertised in the Society's branches 30 days 
prior to the change.
Non-taxpayers Q&A
I am not a taxpayer. Can I claim my interest gross?
Yes, but we require an Inland Revenue form to be completed and signed by the investor. These can be 
obtained from any branch or Head Office.
Do I need to sign an Inland Revenue form for each of my accounts?
Two or more accounts in the same name can be registered on one Inland Revenue form, but each account number must be stated 
on the form.
Interest Q&A
Is tax payable on my interest?
We will automatically deduct income tax at source (except for ISAs). If you are entitled to 
receive interest without paying tax, you will need to complete an Inland Revenue form, available from any of our branches (see Branch Finder), or by calling our
Contact Centre on 01202 560560. Lines are open on Monday to Friday from 8.30am
to 6.30pm and on Saturday from 9am to 12.30pm. 
In which national newspapers do you advertise changes to savings interest rates?
We will advise you of a change to the rates of interest within three working 
days of the change by prominent notices in our branches and by putting notices 
in 'The Times' and 'The Express'. We will also ensure that you can obtain 
details of the old and new rates by telephone and on our website.
When do I start earning interest on my money?
Cash receipts earn interest from the day following receipt, while cheque receipts start earning interest from the 
third working day following receipt. On a Fixed Interest Bond or TESSA, interest is earned from the day of 
receipt.
When does the interest get credited to my account?
Interest payments vary according to the type of account. The most popular account is the Instant Access, 
which pays interest annually on the 1st January.
Tax-free savings Q&A
What is the penalty incurred by closing a TESSA before maturity?
There are no penalties for closing a variable rate TESSA before maturity.
If you close a fixed rate TESSA before maturity in the first year, you will lose the equivalent of 180 days' 
interest. If you close it in the second or third year, you will lose the equivalent of 120 days' and 90 
days' interest respectively.
Can I have both an ISA and a TESSA Only ISA?
Yes.
Who can apply for a Mini Cash ISA?
Individuals who are 16 years or over (18 years or over for a TESSA Only ISA) and 
who are resident in the UK or 
are resident by performing duties as a crown employee overseas (typically a serving member of the armed 
services or a diplomat or married to a person who performs such duties). Accounts can only be held in a sole 
name.
Can I close my ISA?
You may close your Portman ISA at any time, but you will not be able to open another
Mini Cash ISA with Portman or any other ISA provider during the same tax year.
Account closures may be subject to penalties, depending on account conditions.
Can an ISA be closed at a branch? (see Branch Finder)
Yes. You will need to take in your passbook.
Fixed Interest Bonds Q&A
Can I close an Income Bond at a branch? (see Branch Finder)
Yes. You will need to take in your passbook. Account closures are 
likely to be subject to a penalty, depending on account terms and conditions.
My Bond account is due to mature. What should I do?
You will receive a maturity pack shortly before the maturity date. This will provide 
you with all the information 
you need to help you with your reinvestment decision.
If someone dies Q&A
What should I do to close a savings account upon the death of the account holder?
Where the account balance is below £5,000, you should obtain a signed Statutory Declaration. Where the
account balance is over £5,000, you should obtain a Grant of Probate / Letters
of Administration. For all closures upon the death of the account holder, a
withdrawal form will need to be signed by all Executors of the Estate. In 
all cases you must first provide us with sight of the original, or a certified 
true copy of the original death certificate, to enable registration of the death 
to be undertaken.
Can I take over an account from a deceased investor and still have voting rights?
On a joint account, the second holder will take over the membership and voting rights.
On an account with a sole holder, membership ceases on the death of the account holder.
I need to pay inheritance tax before I am able to obtain grant of probate. Will the Portman 
be able to help me?
Yes, providing we are in receipt of an inheritance tax indemnity form which has been duly completed and 
signed by a solicitor. We are then able to release up to a maximum of 75% of the 
combined account balances.
Membership Q&A 
If I open a Savings account, will I be a member of the Society?
Yes, you will be a member provided that you have a share account with the 
Society. In order to have voting rights, you must be the first named shareholder 
and retain a minimum of £100 your share account. (Holders of deposit accounts and 
corporate cheque accounts do not have
membership.)
To make a complaint Q&A
How do I make a complaint?
Please visit our Complaints page.
General Q&A
Why can't you give me information about my account over the telephone?
We maintain strict confidentiality rules to protect our customers. We will be happy to confirm in
writing any information you ask for.
 
 
Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 
© 2001 Portman Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
