
	
	
	
	Welcome to Newcastle Building Society
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handling 
 Customer Complaints 
 
The Newcastle Building 
 Society aims to provide high quality financial services tailored to meet 
 the needs and expectations of our customers. The Society accepts that 
 there may be times when things go wrong and you feel dissatisfied. When 
 this happens, we want to hear about it so we can explain things and put 
 them right. 
 
The Newcastle Building 
 Society is covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service, and in line with 
 the requirements of the Mortgage Code and the Banking Code, has laid down 
 a formal complaints procedure. We do, however, endeavour to resolve any 
 matter as quickly as possible and trust that use of the full procedure 
 will not be necessary. 
 
Our 
 aims:- 
 
 
- Make sure your 
 complaint receives a full and fair investigation 
 
- Sort out your complaint 
 quickly in accordance with strict timescales 
 
- Apologise when 
 things have gone wrong and make sure we put them right. 
 
 
The 
 First Stage 
 
Should you feel you 
 have cause to complain, in the first instance, a staff member at one of 
 our branches or at Principal Office will endeavour to deal with the problem 
 and will, hopefully, bring the matter to a speedy and satisfactory conclusion 
 for you. 
 
If you still express 
 dissatisfaction, and you feel that the Society has not dealt with your 
 complaint correctly, you can request that the Society deals with the matter 
 in accordance with our formal complaints procedure. 
 
To do this, you should 
 write, e.mail, or telephone the Chief Solicitor giving the following information:- 
 
 
1. Your full name 
 and address;
 2. Your account 
 number, or any other reference quoted by the Society; 
 3. Full details of 
 your complaint; 
 4. Any other information 
 you feel relevant to your complaint, and 
 5. Why you feel the 
 matter should be resolved in your favour. 
 
The matter will be 
 recorded as a formal complaint, and will be investigated as Stage 1 of 
 our official complaints procedure. 
 
The 
 Next Stage 
 
The correspondence 
 will then be passed directly to the appropriate Senior Manager, who has 
 the expertise and competence to deal with this matter, and who is not 
 directly involved in the subject of the complaint. 
 
The Manager will write 
 to you so that you may fully consider any further action you wish to take. 
 There could, of course, be further correspondence with the Manager at 
 this stage. 
 
The 
 Final Stage 
 
In the unlikely event 
 that you still feel aggrieved, you may then write again to the Chief Solicitor. 
 This represents the final stage of our official complaints procedure and, 
 at this point, the matter will be referred to a member of the Society's 
 Executive. 
 
All papers relating 
 to the problem will be passed to the Executive responsible for that area 
 of the Society's operation, who will review the matter and, wherever possible, 
 use such discretion as is available to resolve the problem. The relevant 
 Executive will then write to you with the final determination in this 
 matter. 
 
If, after the above 
 procedure has been exhausted, you still feel you have a genuine complaint 
 against the Society, you may refer the case to the Financial Services 
 Ombudsman, provided that the complaint is one that is covered by the Scheme, 
 and within 6 months of receiving the final determination. 
 
We shall endeavour 
 to deal with all correspondence within strict time limits. We will acknowledge 
 complaints within five days of receipt addressed to the Chief Solicitor, 
 giving the name and job title of the person handling the complaint together 
 with details of our internal complaints handling procedures. We will, 
 within four weeks of receiving any complaint, send a final response or 
 a holding response. 
 
In any event, within 
 the period of eight weeks from your initial complaint, we will send you 
 a final response to your complaint. If you are then not satisfied with 
 our response you may then refer the matter to the Financial Services Ombudsman. 
 
 
Useful 
 Contact Details 
 
The address of the 
 Financial Ombudsman Service is as follows: 
 
 
The Financial Ombudsman 
 Service
 South Quay Plaza 
 
 183 Marsh Wall
 London 
 
 E14 9SR 
 Tel: 0845 0801800 
 
 
E.mail: enquiries@financial-ombudsman.org.uk 
 
 Web Site: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk 
 
 
The name and address 
 of the Society's Chief Solicitor is: 
 
Mr. L. Todd, 
 
 Newcastle Building 
 Society 
 Portland House 
 
 New Bridge Street 
 
 Newcastle upon Tyne 
 
 NE1 8AL 
 Tel: 0191 2442444 
 
 
E.mail: les.todd@newcastle.co.uk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confidentiality 
 Queries
 
The Newcastle Building Society will keep your financial affairs strictly 
 confidential as required by law. On occasion we receive requests for Bankers 
 references. Should this occur we will obtain written permission from the 
 customer before satisfying such a request 
 
As part of our service we may occasionally keep you informed of special 
 offers, products and services which we feel may be of interest to you. 
 This could be by letter, telephone or e-mail. From time to time we may 
 pass your information on to carefully selected third parties, subsidiaries 
 and associated companies. If you do not wish to receive this information 
 please notify us in writing or tick the appropriate boxes contained in 
 all of our product literature. 
 
In the interests of security we may from time to time record your telephone 
 calls to and from us. 
 
 
 
References 
 Queries 
 
In certain situations it may be necessary for us to obtain references 
 as are deemed necessary to the operation of our business. We may seek 
 references in the following ways:- 
 
* To make enquiries of Employer(s), Accountants, Bankers, Mortgagees, 
 Landlords, Credit Reference Agencies (including MCL who operate the National 
 Hunter System), the Council of Mortgage Lenders Possession Registry of 
 Loan Repayments and any other third party who may seem to us appropriate 
 for credit assessment purposes. 
 
* To assist in fraud prevention and detection and tracing debtors by 
 registration with the National Hunter System who make it available to 
 other mortgage lenders in the interests of fraud prevention. 
 
* By registration, together with details of the conduct of your account 
 with licensed credit reference agencies. In such circumstances you will 
 be given 28 days notice of our intention to disclose
 
 
 Mutuality 
 Queries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A) 
 What are the 
 key benefits of Building Societies versus PLC's? 
 
 
 B) 
 What are the 
 advantages of Mutual Societies? 
 
 
 C) 
 What is the Newcastle 
 doing as a 'Mutual' society? 
 
 
 D) 
 
 
 We hear a lot about mutuality. 
 What does mutuality mean? 
 
 
 
 E) 
 Do Mutual Building 
 Societies really give better value for money to their members? 
 
 
 
 F) 
 How can I find 
 out who is giving the better deals - banks or building societies? 
 
 
 
 G) 
 Will the Newcastle 
 convert soon? 
 
 
 H) 
 What is a Charitable 
 Assignment scheme and why have you got one? 
 
 
 I) 
 
 
 What is a 'carpetbagger' 
 and where does the term come from? 
 
 
 
 J) 
 Is it just members 
 who benefit from mutual building societies? 
 
 
 K) 
 I just want a 
 windfall, what would we lose if you were to convert? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A) 
 What are the key benefits of Building Societies versus PLC's? 
 
 
 
1) Better products - higher savings and lower mortgage rates (i.e. 
 Consistently top best buy tables). 
 
 2) Working for our members and not for shareholders (e.g. it costs 35% 
 more to run a bank). 
 
 3) Provide a competitive control for the financial markets. 
 
 4) Tackle financial exclusion. 
 
 5) Offer regional diversity missing from nationwide banks. 
 
 6) In the long term offer consistent value (e.g. Tesco's, Egg, etc have 
 greatly lowered 'market share grabbing' rates over time). 
 
 
 
B) 
 What are the advantages of Mutual Societies? 
 
 Best Buys; 
 
 A survey published in the March 1999 edition of the specialist magazine 
 'What Mortgage?' found that out of seventy three mortgage lenders 
 the cheapest thirty over ten years were all mutual Building Societies. 
 
 In the shorter term, a survey published at the end of 1999 by 'The 
 Research Department' of the largest 25 lenders found that nine of 
 the ten cheapest over the previous year had been building societies. 
 
 17 of the best 20 performing TESSA's over the five years to the beginning 
 of 2000 were from Building Societies - Moneyfacts, January 2000. 
 
 Finally, in February and March 2000 the opinion research organisation 
 MORI undertook a survey of over 100 personal finance journalists working 
 in TV, Radio, national and regional newspapers and specialist magazines 
 i.e. Those people who might be best placed to judge the claims of those 
 in favour of and against conversion. 
 
 MORI found that only 2% of the journalists interviewed agreed that 'the 
 conversion and take over of building societies will result in a better 
 service for customers'. 
 
 85% disagreed with this statement, and a resounding 78% of journalists 
 also agreed that 'in the long run, customers of building societies that 
 remain mutual will gain more benefits than customers of building 
 societies that convert'. 
 
 
 
Branch Closures; 
 
 Building Societies recognise face to face banking is one of many important 
 options in delivering service to customers. 
 
 In the period 1995 - 1998 Mortgage banks opened 105 branches but closed 
 282. Building societies opened 242 and closed 227 (University of Newcastle 
 research). 
 
 Building societies often see an inflow of new customers from banks which 
 have closed branches and in some areas, societies have taken over the 
 branch offices vacated by the banks. 
 
 
 
Converted Societies; 
 
Converted Societies are losing their market share as they can't keep 
 competitive interest rates due to the increase in running costs. 
 
 Base costs of converted societies are 35% more than those of building 
 societies as dividends are required to pay to shareholders. 
 
 Bank share prices remain well below recent highs so those people who 
 kept the 'windfall' are losing money. 
 
 
 
Financial Exclusion; 
 
Societies are keeping branches open, as compared to banks - making it 
 easier for those excluded by location to access services. 
 
 Local branches give local support and can more readily take account 
 of local characteristics. 
 
 Traditional passbook accounts are transparent - they don't allow the 
 customer to go overdrawn and into financial difficulty. 
 
 
 
Dormant Accounts; 
 
 Building Societies accept that money in dormant accounts is the property 
 of the member and do not use this for any other purpose. 
 
 Building Societies want people to claim this money, but restrictions 
 in the Data Protection Act prevent them from advertising details of dormant 
 accounts. 
 
 
 
Director 'Fat Cats'; 
 
 Building Society director salaries are fully publicised and are perfectly 
 in line with the rest of the financial industry. 
 
 Many Society Chief Executives would appear to be underpaid, and forgo 
 the opportunity to earn attractive share options when they argue against 
 conversion. 
 
 
 
 
 
C) 
 What is the Newcastle doing as a 'Mutual' society? 
 
 
 
The Newcastle Building Society remain committed to the ethos of mutuality, 
 and as a mutual organisation we are committed to delivering tangible benefits 
 to our members. Maximising profits is not our primary aim. 
 
 Our staff are committed to excellent customer service and all understand 
 the need for excellent customer care. The Newcastle have developed, over 
 a period of time, a comprehensive training plan for those staff who deal 
 with our customers, starting with a two week induction course and then 
 covering specialist customer service skills. The Society spends approximately 
 £230,000 a year on staff training courses. 
 
 Not included within this amount is our further commitment to staff training 
 where each staff member also undertakes at least one half hour training 
 session each week. 
 
 Our products are often market leaders, evident by our regular appearances 
 in the 'best buy' tables in the national press. We have recently featured 
 with our Fixed Rate ISA and NewcastleNet Savings account on the investment 
 side, and on the mortgage side our 5.20% discounted rate until 11/2002 
 received considerable coverage. 
 
 The Newcastle Building Society was 7th in a list of the top 35 mortgage 
 lenders in the July 2000 issue of Moneyfacts, looking at the best deal 
 given on a £50,000 standard variable rate mortgage. 
 
 We are investing huge sums in Information Technology to deliver real 
 benefits, not by replacing staff, but by reducing administration and delivering 
 greater customer contact. The introduction of our Customer Contact Management 
 System throughout our branch network, and the forthcoming 'workflow' systems 
 at Principal Office will substantially change the way we work, ensuring 
 a better service to our customers. 
 
The Newcastle are active in the communities in which we are based, forging 
 links with our customers. On an annual basis we have a Community fund 
 of £70,000 which is used to support a variety of grass roots voluntary 
 projects and charities in the areas surrounding our branches. Our aim 
 is to sustain and nurture those communities and in doing so address some 
 of the key issues which concern our customers and the public at large. 
 
 The Newcastle undertake to support a few well chosen commercial sponsorships. 
 Wherever possible we make sure that, as well as providing a commercial 
 benefit to the Society, they also incorporate an element of benefit to 
 the wider community. We have been sponsoring Northumbria in Bloom since 
 1998 and remain committed to doing so until at least 2003. 
 
 The Newcastle reward customer loyalty, both for our borrowers and investors, 
 and we were amongst the first Societies to reward our borrowers for their 
 loyalty with a discounted interest rate. Recently we have launched special 
 investment accounts to long-standing investors as an reward for their 
 loyalty. We remain committed to offering this loyalty package both to 
 savers and borrowers. 
 
 
 
D) 
 We hear a lot about mutuality. What does mutuality 
 mean? 
 
 
 
A mutual society is run in the interests of its members, the savers and 
 borrowers - and is not listed on the stock market or owned externally. 
 
 The key advantage of this over a stock market listed or 'plc' bank is 
 that a mutual does not have to pay dividends to its shareholders. This 
 means that the surplus or profit a Society makes can be put back into 
 the organisation to benefit its members through interest rates which are 
 higher for savers and lower for borrowers, and through better services. 
 
 Evidence from the annual reports of banks which were previously building 
 Societies shows that the extra cost of paying dividends to shareholders, 
 who are not always the banks customers, it is they who are paying the 
 increased prices that result. 
 
 
 
E) 
 Do Mutual Building Societies really give better 
 value for money to their members? 
 
 
 
One way of looking at how much value a customer is getting from a financial 
 organisation is to look at the difference between interest rate a customer 
 receives for their savings and the interest rate they pay on their mortgage. 
 The narrower the margin between the two, gained by high savings rates 
 and low mortgage rates, the better the value. 
 
 Generally Building Societies operate on lower margins than the banks 
 that used to be building societies. Many building societies operate on 
 margins of less than 1.5%, whereas the converted institutions tend to 
 have margins above 2%. 
 
 
 
F) 
 How can I find out who is giving the better deals 
 - banks or building societies? 
 
 
 
The personal finance pages of the national press (particularly on Wednesdays 
 and at weekends) carry weekly tables showing the 'best buys' in terms 
 of financial products such as mortgages and savings accounts. The Newcastle 
 regularly feature heavily in these best buy tables with a recent example 
 being our 'NewcastleNet Savings Account'. 
 
 A more comprehensive list of products also appears in the publication 
 Moneyfacts which can usually be found at your local library. 
 
 The December 1999 Moneyfacts survey of the 30 largest mortgage lenders 
 showed that the cheapest loans, when calculated over a ten year period, 
 were offered by building societies, which held 15 of the top 20 places. 
 
 This finding was reflected in another independent survey by a company 
 called 'The Research Department' who again, when looking at the largest 
 30 mortgage lenders, found that nine of the cheapest ten were building 
 societies. 
 
 Surveys on interest rates for tax free savings products such as TESSA 
 and ISA have also shown that building societies offer the best deals. 
 
 
 
G) 
 Will the Newcastle convert soon? 
 
 
 
 No, the Newcastle Building Society are committed to remaining mutual 
 in the knowledge that by doing so we can best serve our members interests 
 with low mortgage rates and high savings rates. 
 
 Recently a lot of high street banks have closed branch offices. Whilst 
 we can never say never regarding closure of Newcastle branches, we remain 
 committed to retaining those branches in areas where they have a fundamental 
 social need. As a mutual society we do keep some branches open which are 
 costing us money but we accept that this is part of our social responsibility. 
 
 
 
H) What is a Charitable Assignment 
 scheme and why have you got one? 
 
 
 
 In order to deter carpetbaggers and protect genuine investors, the Newcastle 
 Building Society have introduced a charitable assignment clause to application 
 forms for new savings accounts. 
 
 This means that, for a five year period from signing the application 
 form, any possible windfall the member would receive would go to a charity 
 chosen by the society. 
 
 The Charitable assignment scheme was introduced in April 1999 as there 
 was a real concern within the organisation that we would not be able to 
 offer a high level of service to our customers as a result of the huge 
 volume of account applications we were receiving from speculators, or 
 so called 'carpet baggers'. The Society had previously increased the minimum 
 investment balance for our investment accounts to £1,000 in an attempt 
 to deter these speculators, but we did appreciate that this was pricing 
 the Society out of reach for a large number of genuine investors. As such 
 we felt that the implementation of a Charitable Assignment Scheme would 
 best serve the interests of the society. 
 
 
 
I) What is a 'carpetbagger' 
 and where does the term come from? 
 
 
 
The term 'carpetbagger' comes from the American Civil War, when people 
 from the North packed all their belongings into carpetbags and headed 
 south to lay claim to land which was not theirs. It was first applied 
 to those seeking building society windfalls in early 1996. 
 
 'Carpet bagging' began in the early 1990's following the conversion 
 and subsequent windfall received by members of the Abbey National. Seeing 
 a way to make short term gains, and unconcerned about the long term costs, 
 numerous people opened accounts (often with as little as £100) in 
 many of the remaining building societies with the sole aim of receiving 
 a windfall should they convert. 
 
 
 
J) 
 Is it just members who benefit from mutual building societies? 
 
 
 
 The advantages to our members of a mutual society have been discussed 
 within the previous questions. It is also in the best interests of the 
 financial sector that an alternative to banks exist. The presence of building 
 societies not only provides choice and diversity, but also provides a 
 competitive benchmark for banks and other financial institutions, without 
 which margins could well increase. 
 
 
 
K) I just want a windfall, 
 what would we lose if you were to convert? 
 
 
 
There is clear evidence that former building societies which have become 
 banks have undertaken significant branch closures. 
 
 If the Newcastle building Society were required to change status 
 to a bank or PLC, it is likely that our branch network would be reduced 
 thus diminishing the scope and level of service to our members, and also 
 effecting the social needs of some of the communities in which we are 
 based. The Newcastle believe that a friendly personal service from staff 
 who know their customers is important. 
 
 The Newcastle was one of the first to offer a discounted mortgage rate 
 to reward long-standing borrowers for their loyalty. We also offer preferential 
 investment products to investors who have been with the Society for five 
 years or more. It is likely that both would be withdrawn should the 
 society convert. 
 
 The Newcastle are very active in the communities in which we operate. 
 We believe it is important that we 'interact' with the public, and that 
 they perceive us as a friendly caring organisation which values customer 
 loyalty, gives value for money, and contributes to the current and future 
 well being of the community. 
 
 Our support to the communities in which we work include our Newcastle 
 Building Society Community fund, through which we are able to support 
 a number of grass roots voluntary projects and charities in the areas 
 surrounding our branches. 
 
 We also have an Annual Charity Challenge where our staff, and customers, 
 raise money for a good cause. The Society also makes a sizeable contribution. 
 
 It is likely that, due to the need for profit maximisation, we would 
 have to withdraw from these projects should the Society convert. 
 
 
 
Finally, mutual 
 building societies have out-lent the quoted mortgage banks and attracted 
 significantly more savings inflow over the last two years. 
 
 The Newcastle do not have to pay dividends to shareholders which allow 
 us to provide highly competitive products for our members, and whilst 
 we will never be able to offer the best possible deal on every product, 
 we do feature regularly in the 'best buy' tables. 
 
 It is unlikely that we could continue to offer such a diverse range 
 of competitive, innovative products should we convert. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disability 
 Discrimination Act (1995) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A) 
 Why have we got 
 the Disability Discrimination Act? 
 
 
 B) 
 Why was the Disability 
 Discrimination Act Introduced? 
 
 
 C) 
 What is meant 
 by disabled? 
 
 
 D) 
 What is discrimination? 
 
 
 
 E) 
 When does discrimination 
 take place? 
 
 
 F) 
 Can you ever treat 
 a disabled person less favourably? 
 
 
 G) 
 Is there anything 
 to stop a disabled person being given more favourable treatment? 
 
 
 
 
 
A) 
 Why have we got the Disability Discrimination 
 Act? 
 
 Disabled people can find that, for no good reason, 
 they aren't given the same opportunity as others. Perhaps through prejudice 
 or not discussing matters with a disabled person, it's assumed that he 
 or she can't carry out a task or use a service. This is an example of 
 a disabled person being treated less well, not because they can't do something, 
 but because someone happens to think that they can't. The Disability Discrimination 
 Act makes this kind of less favourable treatment, resulting from a person's 
 disability, unlawful. 
 
 From 2 December 1996 the Disability Discrimination 
 Act makes treating people less favourably than other people without justification, 
 unlawful in areas such as buying goods, using services, and getting a 
 job. 
 
 
 
B) Why was 
 the Disability Discrimination Act Introduced? 
 
 The Disability Discrimination Act aims to end the 
 discrimination which many people face. It gives disabled people rights 
 in the areas of; 
 
 - access to goods, facilities and services 
 
 - employment 
 
 - buying or renting land or property 
 
 For businesses since December 1996 it has been 
 unlawful to treat disabled people less favourably than other people for 
 a reason related to their disability. 
 
 Since October 1999 they have had to make reasonable 
 adjustments for disabled people, such as providing extra help or making 
 changes to the way they provide their services. 
 
 From 2004 businesses will have to consider making 
 reasonable adjustments to the physical features of their premises to overcome 
 physical barriers to access. 
 
 
 
 
 
C) What 
 is meant by disabled? 
 
 The definition used in the Disability Discrimination 
 Act covers people who would generally be regarded as disabled. 
 
 Under the Act, disability is defined as a physical 
 or mental impairment which has a substantial and long term effect on a 
 person's ability to carry out normal day to day activities. 
 
 
 
D) What 
 is discrimination? 
 
 Under the Disability Discrimination Act, discrimination 
 occurs when; 
 
 - a disabled person is treated less favourably 
 than someone else. 
 
 - the treatment is for a reason relating to the 
 person's disability. 
 
 - this treatment cannot be justified. 
 
 Discrimination also occurs where; 
 
 - there is a failure to make a reasonable adjustment 
 for a disabled person. 
 
 - that failure cannot be justified. 
 
 
 
E) When 
 does discrimination take place? 
 
 If a disabled person is refused service, or ignored 
 because of a reason connected with their disability whilst others are 
 treated better then this is discrimination. 
 
 A disabled person can expect to receive the same 
 service as is provided to others. 
 
 A disabled person can expect to be served in the 
 same manner as others. 
 
 A disabled person can expect the terms of service 
 to be the same as those other people obtain. 
 
 
 
F) Can 
 you ever treat a disabled person less favourably? 
 
 The Disability Discrimination Act recognises that 
 in a limited number of circumstances it is not always possible to give 
 disabled people exactly the same service as other people. Less favourable 
 treatment may be possible if the service provider believes that one of 
 the following circumstances applies; 
 
 -Where the treatment is necessary in order to 
 avoid endangering the health or safety of any person. 
 
 -Where the disabled person is incapable of entering 
 into a legally enforceable agreement or of giving informed consent. 
 
 - If you would otherwise be unable 
 to provide the service to the disabled person or other members of the 
 public. 
 
 -Where greater expense is involved in providing 
 a special service for a disabled customer. 
 
 -When an adjustment would fundamentally alter 
 the nature of a business or service. 
 
 
 
G) Is there 
 anything to stop a disabled person being given more favourable treatment? 
 
 
 No - you are allowed to make disabled customers 
 feel particularly welcome, or do more for them than you do for others. 
 
 
 
 
