
 
 
 
 Staffordshire Building Society - 3 Year Disc.
 
 
 
 
 
 REMORTGAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 Year Discount & £350 
 Cashback or Free Title Insurance
 
 
 
 
 DISCOUNT
 
 
 YOU PAY
 
 
 PRODUCT TERM
 
 
 PRODUCT FEATURES
 
 
 FEES
 
 
 APR
 
 
 MAXIMUM LOAN TO VALUE
 
 
 
 
 1.19%
 
 
 4.55%
 
 
 First 3 years of mortgage
 
 
 Free Valuation+ £350 
 Cashback or Free Title Insurance
 
 
 
 
 No Arrangement / Completion 
 Fees
 
 
 
 
 5.4%
 
 
 
 
 90% 
 or 75% if fast track service chosen
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Early 
 Redemption Charge
 
 
 
 
 5% of part or full repayment 
 of loan until end of year 1,
 4% of part or full repayment of loan until end 
 of year 2,
 3% of part or full repayment of loan until end 
 of year 3.
 
 
 
 
 
 YOUR 
 HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS
 ON A MORTGAGE 
 OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Download 
 Mortgage Application Form
 
 
Please look below for further 
 detailed information on this product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ">Product Criteria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Product Description: 
 3 Year Discount & £350 Cashback 
 or Free Title Insurance 
 
 
 Initial Pay Rate: 
 4.55% for first 
 3 years of mortgage 
 
 
 Fees: 
 No 
 Arrangement / Completion Fees 
 
 
 Early Redemption 
 Charge: 
 
 
5% of part or full repayment of loan until end 
 of year 1,
 4% of part or full repayment of loan until end of year 2,
 3% of part or full repayment of loan until end of year 3.
 
 
 
 Special Features: 
 The product is portable which 
 means that you can keep the same rate and terms of this mortgage 
 if you move home (subject to the society's lending criteria at the 
 time) excluding any cashback or title insurance should this apply. 
 
 
 
 Free Valuation 
 (for mortgage purposes only)
 £350 Cashback or Free Title Insurance if LTV is below 75%
 No CHAPS Fee
 If own Buildings insurance is arranged the £25 fee is waived 
 
 
 Buildings and Contents 
 Insurance: 
 
 
Click here - for quote
 
 
 
 Maximum LTV: 
 90% REMORTGAGE 
 
 
 Maximum Loan: 
 £200,000 subject to lending 
 criteria 
 
 
 Borrower Type: 
 Transferring mortgage from another lender 
 
 
 Availability: 
 Staffordshire Building Society reserves 
 the right to withdraw this product at any time and without notice. 
 
 
 Application: 
 Our mortgages are available 
 on a first come, first served basis and we cannot say that they 
 will still be available if you apply in more than 10 working days' 
 time. A firm booking will only take place when a completed signed 
 application has been received within the 10 days and the product 
 is still available. 
 
 
 Written Quotation: 
 A personal quotation is available on request 
 from Staffordshire Direct on 0800 21 61 21 (9am-5pm Mon-Fri, 9am-12noon 
 Sat) 
 
 
 * Our appointed solicitors 
 will be instructed by us to take care of the legal work involved 
 in a typical remortgage on Staffordshire Building Society’s behalf, 
 at no cost to you. All that you’ll have to pay yourself are any 
 non-standard costs that could arise - for example, if your advance 
 is for over £100,000 or the title to your property is unregistered 
 then you would have to pay any additional Land Registry fees. The 
 Society’s Solicitors will try to deal with any practical queries 
 you may have, but will not be able to give you legal, financial 
 or tax advice on your remortgage. We would recommend that you consult 
 your own solicitor or financial advisor if you require legal or 
 financial advice before signing any document we send to you or completing 
 your remortgage. Where additional fees are payable, details will 
 be provided to you by the Society’s solicitors. You will need to 
 pay these additional fees as instructed by the Society’s solicitors. 
 If your remortgage is more complicated, for example, it involves 
 a transfer of equity or a guarantor, you will need to instruct your 
 own solicitor instead. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Terms & Conditions
 
 Typical Example
 A loan of £45,000 on a Interest only basis secured 
 on a property over 25 years on a valuation of £60,000. 36 monthly 
 regular payments of £170.31, 36 monthly regular payments of £214.74, 
 228 monthly regular payments of £199.81 and a final payment of £45,000. 
 Total gross amount payable £104,536. Example assumes the Discount 
 rate of 4.55% will apply for 36 months. The Society's appropriate standard 
 variable base interest rate, currently 5.74% will apply until 1 July 2008. 
 The Society's appropriate loyalty interest rate, currently 5.34% will 
 apply for the remainder of the loan term. (THE APR FOR THE LOAN WILL BE 
 5.4%). The loan is assumed to complete on 15 June 2002. The total amount 
 payable includes £40 redemption seal charge and assumes accrued 
 interest in the first month of £78.07 (gross) is paid with the first 
 full regular monthly payment. If the loan is repaid in full, or in part 
 (other than regular payments) before the first anniversary following completion 
 of the loan, the Society will charge an amount equivalent to 5% of the 
 sum repaid, thereafter, If the loan is repaid in full, or in part (other 
 than regular payments) before the second anniversary following completion 
 of the loan, the Society will charge an amount equivalent to 4% of the 
 sum repaid, thereafter, If the loan is repaid in full, or in part (other 
 than regular payments) before the third anniversary following completion 
 of the loan, the Society will charge an amount equivalent to 3% of the 
 sum repaid Rates shown are variable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
