
	
	
	The West Bromwich Building Society - Pass It On
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	All products and services
	Home
	Mortgages
	Savings
	Life Insurance
	
	Travel Money
	Money Transfer
	Contact Us
	Your Society
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	Contact Us...	by:	Telephone	Branch Locator	Contact Form	Survey	 	
	If you wish to receive information on the Society's products and services, you can do so now simply by completing your details below. 
	
We will send the information you require by return post.
	
Alternatively, e-mail the Society at enquiries@westbrom.co.uk
	
And tell us what you think
You could win £25 in Marks & Spencers vouchers by completing our survey
	
	
	
	
	Contact Form:
	
	
	
	Please don't hesitate to request further information or clarification. 
	
	
	 
	
	
* Required field 
	
	
	
	
Name: * 
	 
	
	
	
	
Address: 
	 
	
	
	
	
Tel (daytime): 
	 
	
	
	
	
Tel (evening): 
	 
	
	
	
	
Fax: 
	 
	
	
	
	
Email: * 
	 
	
	
	I would like more information about: (please tick)
	
Mortgages 
	
	
	 
	
	
Fixed Rate Mortgages
	Discount Mortgages
	Cashback Mortgages
	Buy to Let Mortgages
	
	 
	
	
	
	
Savings and Investments
	
	 
	
	
	 
	How would you like to access your account? 
	
	
	 
	
	At a branch
	By Post
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	Which type of Account are you interested in? 
	
	
	 
	
	
Privileged Membership Accounts
	Notice Accounts
	Easy Access Accounts
	Fixed Rate Savings
	Childrens Accounts
	Tax Free ISA Accounts
	
	 
	
	
	Notes: 
	 
	
	
	
	
	To assist us with our marketing and planning, we would be grateful if you would also fill in the following information.
	
	 
	
	
	
	
How did you find out about our site? 
	
	Newspaper
	Magazine
	TV
	Radio
	Another internet site
	Recommendation
	Direct Mail
	Sponsorship
	Already a Customer
	 
	
	
	
	
Which one? 
	 
	
	
	
	
Was it.. 
	
	
 Advert
	 Editorial
	 Best Buy Table
	 Web link
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
Data Protection
	
	
The information obtained regarding your application and subsequent investment may be held by the Society, its successors in title and assigns. The Society, its successors and assigns may use this information for statistical analysis, for administering your account, and for general business purposes. We may also use your information for marketing, selling and to keep you up-to-date with financial and other products and services offered by the Society, our subsidiaries, associated companies and carefully selected third parties. To enable the Society to provide you with a high standard of service, the Society may give essential information about your account and, if necessary, your name and address, to reputable third parties who may be able to use the information for the above purposes. You may be contacted by telephone, letter or other means of reasonable communication. 
I have read the paragraph on Data Protection and understand that if I do not wish to receive information about new products and services which may be of interest to me, I should tick the box. 
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information held by us in our records in return for payment of a small fee. You also have the right to require us to correct any inaccuracies in your information. 
Unless I have indicated otherwise I confirm my consent to the Society passing to such other companies as the Society deems appropriate my name and address, along with details of my account to enable them to identify and advise me of products and services which they think may be of interest to me and to receiving marketing material on such other products and services offered by the Society and other companies.
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
For help and professional advice,
	 fill in the details below
	and we'll call you back. 
	
	
	
Enter your full phone number: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Enter your name and extension number (if applicable): 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Call me:
	
	Now
	In 5 Minutes
	In 10 Minutes
	In 15 Minutes
	In 30 Minutes
	In 1 Hour
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Please note: Lines are open 8.30am -7pm Monday to Friday, 9am - 12noon Saturday. We can only service calls from the UK.
Remember, if you only have one phone line and are using it to connect to the Net, you will need to hang up so we can ring you. 
	
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for Life Assurance, Pensions and Investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of the Society and Norwich Union. These pages are only for the use of those persons who are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK. The Society accepts no responsibility for the content held on other websites to which you may be directed. The society is a member of the Financial Services Ombudsman and is a signatory to the Banking Code and the Mortgage Code. To obtain copies of these codes, please click on the relevant link. Copies are also available in our branches.
	
Worried about security? Then view our security and privacy policy. 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	© West Bromwich Building Society 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
