
BRISTOL & WEST
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Getting your head around the difference between discounted, variable and fixed rates let alone Base Rate Trackers and typical APRs can be daunting ..... it needn't be.
Here we've listed some of the more commonly used terms:
APR (Annual Percentage Rate)
The Annual Percentage Rate of a loan that you will pay interest on. This is quoted alongside promotional rates to give you a feel for the average cost per year. This allows you to compare the actual cost of different loans.
Booking Fee
A non-refundable reservation fee payable on application.
	
Capital
The name for the money borrowed within the mortgage.
Capped
An arrangement that caps your mortgage rate for a specified period of time.
	
Completion
The final legal transfer of ownership of property following the transfer of funds to buy the property.
Conveyancing
The legal and administrative requirements involved in buying a home.
Credit History
A full credit search will be carried out before an offer is made.
	
Discounted Rate
An arrangement which gives you a set reduction, or 'discount' off our standard variable rate for a specified period of time. At the end of the specified period your mortgage rate will revert to Bank of England Base Rate plus 1% unless otherwise stated.
	
Early Repayment
If you repay the whole of the loan you will be charged an administration fee to cover our reasonable administrative costs in retrieving and checking your deeds and other documents, discharging the mortgage, secure postage, etc. This amount is variable. The current amount is shown in our Tariff of Mortgage Charges. 
	
If you repay the whole or part of the loan you may also have to pay a Repayment Charge, as shown within the product details. This charge covers the loss that we might otherwise suffer, balancing the interest and charges you pay us against our funding and other costs in making the loan to you. If we offer you a loan, our Offer of Loan will state how we calculate your repayment charge and the period over which it will apply. 
	
Fees applied in addition to any interest charges at the time the mortgage is redeemed are charged to cover our reasonable administration costs. These include retrieving and checking the Deeds and Documents, formal sealing, recording of documents sealed and secure postage. (Please note that with some products, for example the Base Rate Tracker products, certain specific criteria apply allowing part repayment without a charge.)
	
Endowment
A life insurance and investment policy which pays out a lump sum should you die or at the end of a specific term. This is often used to pay off a mortgage, depending on how the policy has performed.
Equity
Equity is how much of the property you own outright, i.e. how much would be left after selling the property and paying off the mortgage.
	
Exchange
When you hand over your deposit to the seller and agree a date for completion.
Fixed Rate
An arrangement which fixes your mortgage rate at a set rate for a specified period of time.
	
Freehold
A freehold property means you own the land the property is built on, as well as the bricks and mortar.
Gazumping
This is when you agree a price with the person selling a house, only to find out later that someone has put in a higher offer and that it has been accepted instead.
	
Interest Only
An interest only mortgage means that you only pay interest on the amount you have borrowed usually. This means at the end of the mortgage term, usually 25 years, you are required to pay back the full amount you borrowed.
Land Registry Fee
A fee paid to the Land Registry to register ownership of a property.
Leasehold
If you are a leaseholder, you own the rights to live in a property for a specific period, but someone else owns the land it is built on (you'll usually pay a nominal annual rent to the owner of the land).
LTV
This means Loan To Value. It's the size of a loan described as a percentage of the purchase price. However, please note that if the valuation of the property is lower than the price you have agreed, the LTV will be based on the valuation price.
MIG
A Mortgage Indemnity Guarantee (sometimes called a High Loan Fee). An insurance that borrowers have to pay for when they take high LTV mortgages.
No Extended Tie In
This means that at the end of your fixed, capped or discounted rate period, you will not have to pay an early redemption charge if you pay off your mortgage early.
	
Personal Pension Plans
Personal pensions are a way of making your own pension provision if you are not a member of an employer's scheme. The return from a personal pension or part of it can be used to pay off the capital sum of a mortgage at the end of the mortgage term usually 25 years or, sometimes, earlier. They have the benefit of being tax efficient but to find out if they are suitable you should discuss with your financial 
adviser, visit your local Bristol & West branch, or e-mail us.
Portability
All the interest rates in this range are portable. This means that if you move home during the discounted or fixed rate period, you can enjoy the same rate, on the amount outstanding on your original loan, for the remainder of the discounted or fixed rate period. Conditions apply - please contact your local branch, call our Direct Mortgages team on 0845 300 8000 or email us.
 Local rates apply.
Redemption
If you decide to pay off (redeem) your mortgage earlier than your agreed mortgage term, you may be liable for redemption charges.
Remortgage
When you move your mortgage to another mortgage lender without moving home.
	
Stamp Duty
A government tax of 1% which you must pay if you buy a property for more than £60,000 and less than £250,000. It rises to 3% on properties over £250,000 and up to £500,000 and 4% on properties over £500,000.
Term of mortgage
The length of time over which a mortgage is paid back, normally 25 years.
Valuation
A simple check of the property for the lender in order to find out how much it is worth and whether it's suitable to lend a mortgage on. It's done by a professional surveyor and you'll usually get a copy of the report.
If you would like any further information please feel free to contact us by using one of the following methods:
- Via your local branch,
- By calling our Direct Mortgages team on 0845 300 8000 or
- By emailing us at direct.mortgages@bristol-west.co.uk
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
