
	
	
	
	Chelsea Building Society
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tax-free investment - attractive interest rates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our current rates of interest 
 What is an ISA?
 How much can you invest?
 Chelsea Mini Cash ISA (2nd Issue)
 The more you invest the higher the rate
 CAT standards
 How much can I invest?
 Access to your money
 Who can apply?
 Apply Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUR CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
 (with effect from 9th March 2002)
 
 
 
 
 Balance
 
 
 Gross/AER*
 
 
 
 £6,000 Plus 
 
 4.00%
 
 
 
 £10 - £5,999 
 
 3.65%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What is an ISA?
 Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) were introduced by the Government 
 on 6th April 1999. 
 
They offer a tax free savings scheme to replace TESSAs and PEPs (although 
 they will not affect any investments in TESSAs and PEPs in operation before 
 6th April 1999).
 
ISAs are classified into two categories, Maxi and Mini:
 
 
- The Maxi ISA offers up to three types (components) of investment: 
 Cash, Stocks and Shares and Life Assurance. 
 
- The Mini ISA can offer just one of these components.
 
- Maxi ISA - may be one, two or all three of the ISA investment 
 options. All of these elements are combined in one ISA with the same 
 company or ISA Manager.
 
- Mini ISA - may be any one of the three ISA investment options 
 but, unlike a Maxi ISA, the separate elements may be held with different 
 companies or ISA managers. However, you cannot hold a Maxi ISA and a 
 Mini ISA in the same tax year and you cannot subscribe to more than 
 one Mini ISA of each type in the same tax year. 
 
 
How much can you invest?
 The table below shows the current maximum amounts that may 
 be invested in an ISA in each tax year**:
 
 
 
 
 MAXI ISA
 
 
 MINI ISA
 
 
 
 Cash
 
 up to £3,000
 
 
 up to £3,000
 
 
 
 Stocks and shares
 
 up to £7,000
 
 
 up to £3,000
 
 
 
 Life assurance
 
 up to £1,000
 
 
 up to £1,000
 
 
 
 Combined total
 
 up to £7,000
 
 
 up to £7,000
 
 
 
 
 It is important to note that it is not possible to subscribe 
 to both a Maxi and a Mini ISA, or more than one Mini ISA of the same type, 
 in the same tax year. 
 
Chelsea Mini Cash ISA 
 (2nd Issue)
 Provides you with an attractive variable rate on cash investments 
 up to the current maximum permitted subscription limit of £3,000 
 in each tax year**. 
 
Your interest is paid without tax deducted (subject to ISA Regulations, 
 the account terms and conditions and receipt of a valid declaration).
 
You can transfer your mini cash ISA holding from the Chelsea to another 
 organisation subject to the maximum investment limits imposed by the Government. 
 We do not accept transfers into the Chelsea Mini Cash ISA (2nd Issue) 
 from other organisations.
 
Interest is paid annually on 1st July.
 
The more you invest 
 the higher the rate
 If you choose to add to your existing Chelsea Mini Cash ISA (2nd Issue) 
 in subsequent tax years, you can benefit from our tiered interest rates. 
 As your balance in this account reaches the next level, the higher rate 
 is automatically applied to the whole balance for the time it remains 
 within that level. 
 
Under the current ISA Regulations, you can invest a maximum of £3,000 
 per tax year. To achieve the higher rate for balances of £6,000 
 and over, you will need to add to your ISA over two or more consecutive 
 tax years. Following any tax year in which you do not add to this ISA, 
 you will need to complete a new application form before we can accept 
 further investments. 
 
 
CAT standards
 Chelsea Mini Cash ISA meets the Government CAT Standards. CAT 
 stands for reasonable Charges, easy Access 
 and decent Terms. 
 
It is a voluntary set of standards which apply to ISAs set by the Government 
 as a benchmark. The idea is to provide investors with reassurance that 
 the terms of the ISA will be fair and easy to understand.
 
In outline, the CAT standards require:
 
 
 
 
Charges
 
 - 
 No 'one off' or regular charges 
 
 
 
 
Access
 
 - 
 Withdrawals within 7 days or less 
 
 
 
 - 
 Minimum transaction size no greater than £10 
 
 
 
 
Terms
 
 - 
 Interest rate no lower than 2% below the Bank of England 
 Base Rate 
 
 
 
 - 
 Upward changes to interest rates to reflect the Bank 
 of England Base Rate within a calendar month 
 
 
 
 - 
 No limits on the frequency of withdrawals 
 
 
 
Chelsea's Mini Cash ISA terms meet these standards. 
 
How much can I invest?
 The Chelsea Mini Cash ISA (2nd Issue) can be opened with as 
 little as £10. 
 
You may add to your ISA at any time to benefit from this excellent tax 
 efficient savings account up to a maximum of £3,000 in each tax 
 year**. 
 
In future tax years, you may continue to add to your existing ISA or 
 open a new ISA account.
 
Investment limits for future tax years will be determined by the Government.
 
Access to your money
 You can withdraw money from your Chelsea Mini Cash ISA (2nd 
 Issue) at any time without notice and penalty. 
 
You can normally withdraw up to £250 in cash or £5,000 by 
 cheque on demand. Larger sums by cheque may be withdrawn in a few days.
 
Please note that the current maximum value of subscriptions is £3,000, 
 regardless of the number or value of withdrawals made. For example, if 
 you make the maximum investment in the tax year 2001/2002 of £3,000 
 and then make a withdrawal of say £500, you will not be able to 
 make any further subscriptions to your Chelsea Mini Cash ISA (2nd Issue) 
 in that tax year. 
 
Who can apply?
 You must be aged 16 years or over and be resident in the UK 
 for tax purposes. 
 
ISAs may be opened by adults on an individual basis (joint ISAs are not 
 available).
 
Apply now
 
 
*The Annual Equivalent Rate 
 (AER) illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid 
 and added to the account each year. Interest rates may be variable (see 
 product details). Interest is paid at intervals specified in the relevant 
 product details. Subject to ISA Regulations, the account terms and conditions 
 and receipt of a valid declaration, interest will be paid gross without 
 income tax being deducted.
 
**Each tax year starts on 6th April in one year and 
 ends on 5th April in the next. For example - the tax year 2002/2003 is 
 the period 6th April 2002 to 5th April 2003.
 
The investments and savings 
 information published on this website should be read in conjunction with 
 the Society's most recent Summary Financial Statement to be found in the 
 section headed "About Chelsea" and the Information for Chelsea 
 Investors section.
 
Chelsea Building Society subscribes 
 to the Banking Code, a copy of which is available on request. 
 
	
	
	
