
 
Saving Account Terms and Conditions - Super 60 Savings Account
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In these terms and conditions "you/your" means the account holder(s) 
 and "we/us" means Dudley Building Society.
 
Membership 
 and Rules
 
1. Super 60 
 Savings Accounts are shares in Dudley Building Society (the "Society"). 
 You become a member of the Society when your account is opened and you 
 agree to be bound by the Society's rules and the account terms and conditions. 
 A copy of the Memorandum and Rules is available on request from the Society's 
 Branches and Head Office.
 2. Super 60 Savings Accounts are only available to personal savers resident 
 in the U.K. and over 60 years of age. Applications cannot be accepted 
 from corporate bodies.
 
Savings 
 Limits and Receipts
 
3. The minimum 
 opening amount is £500.00. The maximum amount is £500,000 
 (representing overall limit of savings with the Society for each individual).
 4. The Society reserves the right to withdraw the account from offer without 
 notice.
 5. For receipts through the Bankers Automated Clearing system it is the 
 account holders responsibility to ensure that the correct account number 
 details are provided to allow the Society to credit payments to the account.
 6. Where receipts are made via the postal system the passbook is required.
 7. Cheques can normally be accepted for six months following the date 
 they are drawn.
 8. Cash and cheque deposits can be made at any branch. A handling fee 
 representing 10% of the total value of coins, deposited will be charged 
 if the value is £20.00 or more.
 
Cooling-off 
 Period
 
9. If within 
 16 days of opening your account you decide that this account is not suitable 
 for you, if you write to us and advise us of this we will either, transfer 
 the account to another Dudley Account or arrange to return the balance 
 plus interest to you, whichever you prefer. There will be no penalty charges 
 and if you require the funds to be repaid this will be by cheque payable 
 to the account holder(s). Funds will not be returned to the account holder(s) 
 until cheques have cleared which will take a period of up to 14 days.
 
Interest
 
10. The interest 
 rates payable on your account are variable and we may change the rate 
 of interest at any time for any valid reason.
 11. When we change the interest rates, we will tell you about the changes 
 at the earliest opportunity but at least within 3 working days of the 
 change:
 (I) by general notice in our Branches
 (II) by notice in newspapers of our choice. The newspapers we usually 
 use are the Express and Star and Dudley News Group showing our previous 
 and new interest rates.
 Annually we will send a summary of our products and the current rates 
 and all the different interest rates which have applied to your account 
 during the year (unless the account balance is below £100).
 12. You can find out what interest rates apply to your account at anytime 
 by contacting any of our Branches or Head Office on (01384) 231414.
 13. Interest will be payable after deduction of income tax at the rate 
 required by law or subject to the required Registration, gross (i.e. without 
 tax deduction). Tax (if any) may be reclaimed from the Inland Revenue 
 where the amount deducted exceeds your liability to tax.
 14. Receipts into your account will earn interest from the day of receipt 
 to your account although the Society requires up to 14 days before a cheque 
 will be cleared.
 15. Interest is calculated on a daily basis up to the day of withdrawal. 
 If you require an explanation of how your interest is calculated please 
 ask your local Branch or contact Head Office. A written explanation will 
 be posted to you within a few days of your request.
 16. Where interest is paid to a bank or building society account, you 
 must provide sufficient information for this transmission. In the event 
 of insufficient information, interest will be credited to the account.
 17. Interest will be paid annually on the 31st March or monthly on balances 
 over £10,000 if preferred.
 18. If your balance falls below £10,000 and the interest is paid 
 monthly the rate of interest will be the same as the lowest tier of the 
 Extra Special Account
 19. Higher rates of interest are paid as your savings rise above £5,000, 
 £10,000, £25,000, £50,000 and £100,000.
 20. If your savings fall below £500 the rate of interest will be 
 the same as the lowest tier of the Extra Special Account.
 
Availability 
 of Funds and Withdrawals
 
21. A cheque 
 drawn on a Dudley Building Society account will not be stopped.
 22. We reserve the right not to pay withdrawals from cheques received 
 until up to 14 days have elapsed.
 23. Cheques withdrawn and subsequently returned for saving will earn interest 
 from the date they are received by the Society.
 24. You are allowed immediate access to your money, subject to a limit 
 of up to £500 in cash each day or a greater amount by cheque providing 
 you have the available funds in your account.
 
Ownership 
 and Responsibilities
 
25. Two or 
 more persons (maximum four) may jointly open an account. You may choose 
 the order of names on the account. Only the first named will be entitled 
 to attend meetings and vote, if eligible in accordance with the Society's 
 Rules. All correspondence will be sent to the registered address of the 
 first named holder.
 26. In the case of a joint account in one or more names, all holders are 
 jointly and severally bound by the Rules of the Society.
 27. For joint accounts, funds are held on the basis of joint beneficial 
 ownership.
 28. In the event of a death, the account balance and accrued interest 
 is payable to your personal representatives. In the event of the death 
 of a joint account holder, the survivor(s) will be person(s) recognised 
 by us as having any title to, or interest in the account.
 29. Where an account is opened in the names of more than one person, on 
 death the balance will automatically pass to remaining account holder(s). 
 If the parties on an account decide to separate, you must advise the Society 
 immediately, as otherwise the account will continue to be operated in 
 accordance with current instructions. If there is a dispute between any 
 parties on the account and we are notified of this, the account will be 
 "frozen" and no withdrawals will be allowed by any party to 
 the account until the matter has been clarified to our satisfaction.
 
Identification
 
30. The Society 
 must observe the requirements of the Money Laundering Regulations and 
 therefore, proof of identity and verification of address will be required 
 before an account is opened.
 
Change 
 of Name or Address
 
31. You must 
 notify us promptly if your name or address changes. Any notice of change 
 of name must be accompanied by evidence of the change. We may require 
 evidence of any change of address.
 
Repayment, 
 Issue, Closure and Transfers
 
32. We may, 
 without giving any reason, repay to you, all or part of your savings at 
 any time after giving you at least 30 days notice.33. We reserve the right 
 to close any issue of the account to new savers, without individually 
 notifying each account holder.
 34. You may, subject to the terms of issue of your account and to our 
 prior approval, transfer your savings to another person. No transfer will 
 be valid unless made in a form approved by us and until registered in 
 our records. We may refuse to permit such a transfer without giving any 
 reason.
 
Passbook
 
35. We will 
 provide you with a passbook, but it will remain our property and must 
 be returned to us on request. Your passbook must be forwarded to us, at 
 such times as we may decide, to be brought up to date or for such other 
 purposes as we may require.
 36. Your passbook must accompany any withdrawal and any further saving.
 37. If your passbook has an entry which seems to be wrong, you should 
 tell us as soon as possible so we can resolve matters.
 38. You must immediately notify us by contacting any of Branches or Head 
 Office on (01384) 231414 if you discover that your passbook is missing. 
 You must then confirm this in writing. After you have provided such evidence 
 regarding the loss, and given any indemnity and paid such fee (if any) 
 which we may require, we may transfer the amount in the account to a replacement 
 passbook after seven days have elapsed. If someone other than you, produces 
 your passbook to us, pretends to be you or to be authorised by you, and 
 is therefore able to withdraw money from your account, you will be liable 
 for the amount of any withdrawals if you have acted fraudulently or with 
 gross negligence.
 39. The Society will issue a passbook in the name(s) of the account holder(s). 
 The passbook may only be used in accordance with these Terms & Conditions. 
 The passbook is not transferable and may only be used by the person(s) 
 to whom it is issued. You are not allowed to enter or amend any details/ 
 transactions in the passbook.
 
Retention 
 and Set-Off
 
40. Provided 
 we give notice in writing, we have the right to retain and set-off all 
 money in any account you hold with us against any indebtedness you may 
 have to us, whether under a mortgage, guarantee or otherwise, which is 
 due for payment or Repayment, but has not been paid or repaid as the case 
 may be. Interest or bonuses will not be paid on any money used in this 
 way.
 
Variation 
 of Terms and Conditions
 
41. These terms 
 and conditions (other than rates of interest) may be varied:-
 (a) To reflect general market conditions and standards (including the 
 terms of which similar accounts are offered by other financial institutions).
 (b) So that we can compete more effectively with other financial institutions.
 (c) To improve efficiency and/or reduce costs.
 (d) To give extra benefit to savers (including making the terms of the 
 account easier to understand).
 (e) To take account of changes in the law, decisions of the Ombudsman, 
 Regulator or similar person or any code of practice with which we intend 
 to comply.
 (f) If you agree.
 (g) The needs of the business justify a change.
 These terms and conditions will only be changed after at least 30 days 
 notice has been given to you. This notice will be provided:
 (a) through general notice in our Branches; or
 (b) by advertisement in newspapers of our choice. The newspapers we usually 
 use are the Express and Star and Dudley News Group.
 42. If any of these changes is clearly to your disadvantage these will 
 not take effect until we have personally written to you giving you at 
 least 30 days notice of the change. If you are not satisfied with the 
 changes we propose to make, you may within 60 days of us personally writing 
 to you, ask us to switch your account or close it. Any notice period applying 
 to your account during the 60 day period will be ignored and you will 
 not incur any additional charge or interest penalty.
 43. Where there has been a significant change to the terms and conditions 
 in any one year, we will send you a copy of the new terms and conditions 
 or a summary of these changes. 
 
Data 
 Protection
 
44. Information 
 supplied by you will be held on our records in accordance with the Society's 
 registration under the Data Protection Legislation. We may use this information 
 or share it with a third party, for account administration (including 
 debt tracing and collection), credit assessment, fraud prevention and 
 to inform you of other products and services. Please write to us at the 
 address below if you do not wish to receive information on products and 
 services. You are entitled to ask for a copy of any information held about 
 you, subject to a payment of a £10.00 administration fee, and you 
 also have the right to request that it be changed if it is incorrect. 
 If you have any questions about the Data Protection Act or your rights 
 under it, please write to the Society's Compliance Officer at Dudley Building 
 Society, Dudley House, Stone Street, Dudley, West Midlands, DY1 1NP.
 
General
 
45. You are 
 not permitted to use a "Correspondence" address or a P.O. Box 
 number address.
 46. Post dated cheques will not be accepted or issued.
 47. We reserve the right to refuse any savings at any time at the Society's 
 sole discretion.
 48. The Society shall not be liable for any error or delay that may take 
 place in the processing of any transaction, or the operation of your account, 
 and any losses which may result, should the error or delay arise from 
 any circumstances beyond our reasonable control including, but not limited 
 to:
 (a) Industrial Action
 (b) Fire, Flood, Explosion, Act of Government, Riot, Act of God or any 
 other cause beyond our control.
 (c) The failure (directly or indirectly) of any machine, data processing 
 system or transmission link.
 (d) Delays in postal deliveries or cheque clearance.
 49. (i) We will not give any information about you to credit reference 
 agencies unless we have your permission.
 (ii) We will need your written permission before we give a bankers reference 
 for you.
 
Confidentiality
 
We 
 will treat all your personal information as private and confidential (even 
 when you are no longer a customer). We will not reveal your name and address 
 or details about your accounts to anyone, other than in the following 
 four exceptional cases when we are allowed to do this by law;
 
 
- If 
 we have to give the information by law; 
 
- If 
 there is a duty to the public to reveal the information; 
 
- If 
 it is in our interests to give the information. But we will not use 
 this as a reason for giving information about you or your accounts (including 
 your name and address) to anyone else including other companies in our 
 group for marketing purposes. 
 
- If 
 you ask us to reveal the information, or if we have your permission. 
 
 
The Banking Code
 
Dudley Building 
 Society complies with the Banking Code and Mortgage Code of Practice. 
 Copies of the Code(s) are available on request.
 
Compensation 
 Scheme
 
Dudley Building 
 Society is a participant in the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
 established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments 
 under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% 
 of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits 
 in a society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, 
 including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of 
 shares and deposits are not covered. Although most shares and deposits 
 are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further 
 details are available on request from the Society.
 
Customer 
 Complaints
 
In the first 
 instance please contact Head Office or your local Branch, outlining your 
 complaint, where the Manager will try to deal with the matter to your 
 satisfaction. If you are not satisfied with the explanation write to the 
 Society's Secretary at Dudley Building Society, Dudley House, Stone Street, 
 Dudley, West Midlands, DY1 1NP outlining the nature of your complaint. 
 Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
 Service, Banking and Loans Division, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, 
 London, E14 9SR. Tel: 0845 080 1800. Email enquiries@financial-ombudsman.org.uk. 
 Please note the Financial Ombudsman Service will not enter into investigation 
 of any complaint unless you have followed the Internal Complaints Procedure 
 (full details available on request).
 
Help 
 us to help you
 
 
 
It 
 will help us to provide you with a high standard of service if you make 
 sure you let us know as soon as possible when you change your:
 
 
- Name 
 
- Address; 
 or 
 
- Telephone 
 Number
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
