
Charges for Account Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHARGES FOR ACCOUNT SERVICES
 
Revised
 charges which apply on Investment and Current Accounts from 1 February
 2002
 
 
 Stopping
 payment of a cheque 
 
 £5
 
 
 
 Special
 presentation of a cheque 
 
 £12
 
 
 
 Duplicate
 statement of interest and account transactions. Up to five duplicate
 statements may be obtained in a single request. Where more than
 five duplicate statements are required, or you require copies
 of statements issued before 31st March 1996, please contact
 your branch to obtain a separate indication of the cost of producing
 duplicates. 
 
 £5
 
 
 
 Copy of
 a paid cheque or payee details 
 
 £5
 
 
 
 Unpaid
 cheque drawn on a Current Account 
 
 £22
 
 
 
 Unpaid
 direct debit 
 
 £22
 
 
 
 Unpaid
 standing order 
 
 £12
 
 
 
 Payment
 made on an overdrawn Current Account where no formal overdraft
 has been agreed, or an agreed overdraft limit has been exceeded
 (see Unauthorised Overdrafts) 
 
 £9
 
 
 
 Replacement
 for a lost passbook 
 
 £10
 
 
 
 Replacement
 for a lost card or personal identification number (PIN) issued
 with Current Accounts and Cashcard Accounts 
 
 £5
 
 
 
 Processing
 same day CHAPS payments received by the Society’s bank 
 
 £2
 
 
 
 Processing
 same day CHAPS payments to other UK Banks or Building Societies 
 
 £18
 
 
 
 
Points to
 Note:
 
 
 Unpaid charges
 will normally only apply where we have been unable to pay a direct
 debit, standing order or cheque, because you do not have sufficient
 cleared funds in your account, at the time the direct debit or cheque
 is presented for payment or the standing order is due to be paid.
 
Current Account cheque payments and payments made from Investment
 and Current Accounts by direct debit, standing order and regular
 internal transfer, are normally processed before 9.00am. Please
 ensure that you have sufficient cleared money in your account by
 5.00pm on the day prior to the day the payment is due to be made.
 It is regretted that failure to ensure this is the case, may result
 in the payment not being made and a charge applied. Please allow
 additional time for processing of money paid in through our cash
 machines, agents or by post (see Cumberland Investment and Current
 Account Conditions for full details).
 
When an arranged regular internal transfer is due for payment,
 and the transfer date falls on a Sunday or English Bank Holiday,
 the transfer will be made on the next Society working day. In cases
 where a Sunday or English Bank Holiday falls on the last day of
 the month, transfers due on this date will be made on the Society
 working day prior to the last day of the month.
 
All charges for services are payable when the service is requested,
 or in the case of unpaid items, will be charged to your account
 when we return items unpaid.
 
The Cumberland also offers a limited Current Account service to
 non personal customers. Details of this service together with the
 additional charges which apply, can be obtained from any Cumberland
 branch.
 
We do not make any charge for cash withdrawals made at Cumberland
 Link cash machines or other Link cash machines. Withdrawals
 made at some Link cash machines in non traditional places such as
 shops (as opposed to supermarkets), public houses and petrol stations
 may have a charge applied by the machine owner. The cash machine
 should however display a screen warning which will allow you to
 cancel the transaction and use an alternative machine, or continue
 with the withdrawal and accept the charge which will be deducted
 from your account along with the amount withdrawn.
 
 
OVERDRAWN
 BALANCES 
 
 Interest is charged
 on Current Account overdrafts for the period of time the account
 is overdrawn. The interest charged for each of the quarters ending
 30 June, 30 September, 31 December and 31 March will be deducted
 from Current Account customers’ account balances around the 25th
 day of the month following the dates shown. You will be pre-notified
 of this by a message on your statement or a separate interest advice.
 
 
AUTHORISED OVERDRAFTS
 
 If you have arranged
 an overdraft with the Society the interest rate charged is 2.29%
 per quarter (equivalent to an Effective Annual Rate (E.A.R.)
 of 9.48%). 
 
UNAUTHORISED
 OVERDRAFTS 
 If you have not
 arranged an overdraft with the Society and your account goes overdrawn,
 then the rate of interest is 4.55% per quarter (equivalent to an
 E.A.R. of 19.48%). In addition to overdraft interest, a charge
 of £9 is payable for each payment we make on your behalf on an overdrawn
 Current Account where no formal overdraft has been agreed, or an
 agreed overdraft limit has been exceeded. Any charge payable will
 be deducted from your account when we make payment on your behalf.
 
 
TRAVELLERS
 CHEQUES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY 
 
We can arrange the purchase and sale of travellers cheques or
foreign currency through Travelex Ltd. Where appropriate,
the rate of exchange which will apply, will be the rate applicable
at the time your order is processed by Travelex Ltd.
Exchange rates may vary between the time of purchase and the
time of sale and cannot be guaranteed.
 
A handling fee of £5.00 is made by Travelex Ltd for each customer
 order, for the purchase of travellers cheques or foreign currency.
 In addition there is a commission charge of 1% of the sterling cost
 of the order. When we sell unused foreign currency or non sterling
 travellers cheques to Travelex Ltd on your behalf, no commission
 is charged. It normally takes four bank working days for the sterling
 equivalent to be credited to your account and be available for withdrawal.
 We reserve the right to limit the amount of foreign currency accepted
 for conversion into sterling.
 
 
OTHER FOREIGN
 DENOMINATION CHEQUES, EUROCHEQUES AND STERLING CHEQUES DRAWN ON
 A FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNT 
 Charges are payable
 for these services and are made both by our bankers and the drawing
 bank. We regret we cannot confirm in advance the amount of the charges,
 but for guidance this could be as high as £60. All charges will
 be deducted from the amount due on conversion and the net amount
 credited to your account. Please allow at least eight weeks for
 these cheques to be paid by the drawing banker. The rate of exchange
 which will apply will be the rate applicable on the date the cheque
 is paid by the drawing banker. We regret we cannot guarantee in
 advance the rate of exchange which will apply, nor will we normally
 accept such cheques for amounts less than £100.
 
TRANSFERRING
 MONEY ABROAD 
 If you wish to
 transfer money to a bank account abroad, we can arrange this through
 our bankers Royal Bank of Scotland plc. Transfers to a bank abroad
 can take approximately ten bank working days from the time we receive
 your written instructions to arrange the transfer to the date the
 money is received abroad, although transfers may take longer to
 be received and processed by some banks abroad. You can ask us to
 arrange the transfer of sterling or foreign currency, but we cannot
 guarantee in advance the rate of exchange which will apply, as this
 will depend on the date on which sterling is converted into foreign
 currency. Our bankers make a charge for transferring money abroad
 which is variable, but is currently £15. Transfers to a bank abroad
 may be subject to a charge made by the recipient bank, but we regret
 we cannot confirm in advance the amount of any such charge. We reserve
 the right not to accept requests to transfer funds to banks in countries
 where the transfer time may be considered by our bankers to be excessive.
 
 
An alternative
 service is available, which takes approximately eight bank working
 days. The charge for this service is 0.30% of the amount being transferred
 subject to a minimum charge of £17 and a maximum charge of
 £40. If this service is used to transfer money in Euros, the
 charge will be a flat fee, currently £20.
 
If you prefer
 to send money abroad yourself, we can arrange the purchase of a
 bankers draft through our bankers Royal Bank of Scotland plc. Our
 bankers make a charge which is variable, but is currently £15. We
 can arrange the purchase of a sterling or foreign currency bankers
 draft, but we cannot guarantee in advance the rate of exchange which
 will apply, as this will depend on the date on which the order for
 a foreign currency draft is processed by our bankers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A
 copy of the Cumberland Investment and Current Account Conditions
 which relate to your account may be obtained from any of our branches.
 We support the Banking Code and are covered by the Financial Ombudsman
 Scheme. Further details are available from any of our branches.
 
 
 
 
 
