
Jubilee Special Mortgage
 
 
 
 
homebuyers 
 | Jubilee Special Mortgage
 
A "fee-free" 
 mortgage - no arrangement fee, no valuation fee, no higher lending fee 
 and a £500 cash bonus to reimburse your solicitor's costs. We 
 also give you a discount for 5 years!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 Year Stepped Discount from our Standard Variable Mortgage Rate
 
Offers a discount 
 from our standard variable mortgage interest rate for five years. 
 The discount is structured so that the more deposit you put down or 
 the greater equity you have in your property, the more you save:
 
 
 
 
 Year 1 
 Years 2 to 
 5 
 
 
 Loans 
 up to 90% loan to value 
 1.10% 
 0.25% 
 
 
 Loans 
 from 90.01% to 95% loan to value 
 0.55% 
 0.10% 
 
 
 
Standard Variable 
 Mortgage Rate of 5.05% (5.21% APR)
 
Our standard variable 
 mortgage interest rate is currently one of the lowest in the country 
 and has been for at least the last 5 years. It is important to look 
 at the true cost of your mortgage over the whole term (the "APR"), 
 rather than focusing on just the headline rate.
 
£500 Cash 
 Bonus
 
On completion of 
 your mortgage we will give you a £500 cash bonus. This is designed 
 to help reimburse your legal costs but you can use it as you wish. If 
 you are remortgaging from another lender, you have a choice. We can 
 give you the £500 cash bonus and you arrange your solicitor and 
 pay the legal fees separately, or the legal work can be carried out 
 by a solicitor on our 'Jubilee Special' remortgage panel and we will 
 pay the costs. We have agreed a special rate of £300 for the legal 
 fees involved, so when your mortgage completes you will still receive 
 a £200 cash bonus. Please ask for details of this service when 
 you apply (also see 'Terms'). Loans under £50,000 do not qualify 
 for the cash bonus or free legal service.
 
Capital Repayments 
 at no charge
 
As long as you do 
 not fully repay your mortgage, you can make as many capital repayments 
 or monthly overpayments as you like to your mortgage without charge. 
 See Charges for details of the early repayment charge applied when your 
 mortgage is repaid in full.
 
Daily Interest
 
Interest is charged 
 daily, which means that you benefit immediately from lower interest 
 charges when making your minimum monthly payment and any overpayments.
 
No Additional 
 Security Fee
 
If the loan to value 
 on your mortgage is more than 75%, we will take out a mortgage indemnity 
 policy but we will pay the additional security (mortgage indemnity) 
 fee for you. This is of particular benefit to First Time Buyers who 
 tend to have a lower deposit and a tighter budget.
 
No Valuation 
 Fee
 
We will carry out 
 a standard valuation of the property and providing your mortgage completes, 
 we will pay for it. We will also give you a copy of the valuation report.
 
Available for 
 House Purchase and Remortgage
 
As long as you are 
 buying or remortgaging your main residence, then the 'Jubilee Special' 
 mortgage is available to you. This is, of course, subject to status, 
 valuation and our standard lending policy. Check with a Mortgage Adviser 
 to ensure that you qualify.
 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
Available for house 
 purchase and remortgage, with the applicant's main residence as security. 
 
Portable - the benefits 
 can be continued on your new mortgage if you decide to move house.
 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
No Arrangement Fee.
 
No Valuation Fee.
 
No Additional Security 
 Fee.
 
An early repayment 
 charge of 4% of the original loan amount is payable if you redeem your 
 mortgage in full, within the first year of the mortgage completing. 
 This charge reduces to 3% of the original loan amount in year two; 2% 
 in year three and 1% in year four of the mortgage term.
 
Partial capital 
 repayments are allowed at any time without charge.
 
We do charge administration 
 fees for specific mortgage services required during the term of the 
 mortgage. These are detailed in our 'Administration 
 Fees' leaflet, which will be given to you with our formal mortgage 
 offer.
 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
The 
 'Jubilee Special' mortgage is available from 8 May 2002. A written quotation 
 is available on request.
 
Registered 
 mortgage intermediaries receive a fee when introducing mortgages to 
 us which, if applicable, will be disclosed to you.
 
To 
 apply for a mortgage you must be aged 18 or over. All loans are subject 
 to status and independent valuation. 
 
You 
 should ask your tax office if 'Jubilee Special' mortgage benefits are 
 subject to tax.
 
Your 
 mortgage account must be conducted satisfactorily to continue to benefit 
 from the features of 'Jubilee Special' mortgage.
 
Interest 
 is calculated daily. Overpayments can be made and will immediately affect 
 interest charged. 
 
After 
 the 5 year discounted period, the interest rate will revert to the Society's 
 then standard variable mortgage rate of interest. Interest is calculated 
 daily.
 
The 
 £500 cash bonus will be sent to you within two weeks of your mortgage 
 completing. If you are remortgaging and choose our fixed price legal 
 service instead of the £500 cash bonus, you will receive a cash 
 bonus of £200.
 
If 
 you are remortgaging and use our fixed price legal service, you need 
 to be aware that the service excludes costs incurred from registering 
 unregistered land/property or telegraphic transfer fees. If these apply, 
 you will need to meet the additional cost. If your mortgage does not 
 complete you are responsible for repaying the legal fees in full.
 
You 
 do not have to arrange your home insurance through Newbury Building 
 Society but we will give you a quote. We do insist that you have satisfactory 
 buildings insurance to at least the value of the sum insured given by 
 our Valuer. 
 
We 
 recommend that you take Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (MPPI) 
 to protect your income if you cannot work through redundancy or illness. 
 We also recommend financial advice, which we offer through Norwich Union.
 
The 
 Society frequently discloses black and white data on mortgage customers 
 to a credit reference agency. This procedure has strict rules in order 
 to protect account holders and has been approved by the Information 
 Commissioner.
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
#A 
 typical example of a £75,000 interest only mortgage over 25 years 
 (300 months) on a property valued at £100,000 is: 12 monthly payments 
 at 3.95% of £246.88, 48 monthly payments at 4.80% of £300.00 
 and 240 monthly payments at 5.05% of £315.63. Total amount payable 
 is £167,913, which includes typical solicitors charges of £300, 
 cash bonus of £500, free valuation of £125.00 and repayment 
 of capital of £75,000. APR 5.01% assumes the interest rate does 
 not vary over the mortgage term.
 
YOUR 
 HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER 
 LOAN SECURED ON IT. The property is required as security for the loan.
 
The 
 Mortgage Code
 We comply with the Mortgage Code, which is a voluntary code followed 
 by lenders and mortgage intermediaries, setting minimum standards of 
 good lending practice. A copy of the Mortgage Code is available on request 
 and is given to all customers who apply for a mortgage with us.
 We believe that choosing your mortgage is one of the most important 
 decisions you are likely to make, so we will advise you on which product 
 we feel is most suitable for you, taking into account your circumstances, 
 preferences and current market conditions. 
 We are committed to providing you with standards exceeding those laid 
 out in the Mortgage Code and welcome you to tell us if we are not meeting 
 your expectations.
 
The 
 Financial Ombudsman Service
 We have a formal complaints procedure, a copy of which is available 
 from your local branch on request. Most complaints we cannot settle 
 may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
 
contact 
 us 
 for further information on our Jubilee Special Mortgage, or alternatively 
 register online with tell 
 me 
 for regular news updates on Newbury Building Society products. 
 
 
Head 
 Office address:
 17 Bartholomew Street,
 Newbury,
 Berks
 RG14 5LY
 tel: 01635 555700
 fax: 01635 555799
 e-mail: mail@newbury.co.uk 
 
 
new 
 enquiries hotline: 01635 555700 
 
Back 
 to menu
 
links 
 | 
 admin 
 fees | calculator 
 | 
 terms & valuation fees 
 | long 
 term value | mortgage 
 facts 
 
 
 
