 
 
 
 
Ipswich Building Society
raditionally, most
of us prefer to do business with someone we know and trust - a preference that
has made Ipswich Building Society popular with so many modern Suffolk people.
Established in 1849
Ipswich Building Society has 150 years of dealing with the savings and mortgage
needs of the people of Suffolk. We have 8 branches and 9 agencies in Suffolk
and North Essex and are well placed to offer our members a first class personal
service backed up by an unrivalled knowledge of the area.
Our local knowledge
enables us to be flexible with our lending decisions as well as offering highly
competitive mortgage and investment products.
Ipswich Building Society
is committed to remaining independent as a mutual organisation. We believe that
by not having to pay dividends to shareholders we can offer better rates to our
members.
One of the Society's
major strengths is its branch and agency network. Our customers can transact
all their business at a convenient location and deal with well trained staff
who can answer all of their queries.
enquiries@ipswichbuildingsociety.co.uk 
How to
Find us
Head office:
44 Upper Brook Street, Ipswich IP4 1DP 
Telephone: +44(0)1473 211021 
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES IN: ALDEBURGH - BURY ST EDMUNDS
CAPEL ST. MARY - CLARE - FELIXSTOWE - FRAMLINGHAM
HADLEIGH - HALESWORTH - HAVERHILL - IPSWICH
 LEISTON - MANNINGTREE - NEEDHAM MARKET
SAXMUNDHAM - STOWMARKET - WOODBRIDGE
Ipswich Building Society
complies with both the ‘Banking Code’ and ‘Mortgage Code’, these
set standards of good practice for building societies and banks. 
Copies of these codes are available on request.
Member of the Financial
Ombudsman Service, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London E14 9SR. Tel: 0845
080 1800. Email: enquiries@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
Member of The Building Societies Association.
 
Ipswich Building
Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated
by the Financial Services Authority, for life assurance, pensions
and investments. Any financial advice given on life assurance, pensions and
investments will relate only to the products of the Society and Norwich Union.
 
E-mail your comments on our web site to us:
Page Last Updated: 
03/05/2002
