
UK Mortgages - Paragon Mortgages - Legal Documents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 " ALIGN="right" WIDTH="604" HEIGHT="23" BORDER="0" USEMAP=#kbnav>
 
 
 
 
 
 
General Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Paragon Mortgages Reference Area - 28 June 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Some of the inevitable 'small print' is included in these pages. The following conditions apply whenever we offer you a mortgage and will probably be of more interest to your solicitor.
1. PURPOSE
These conditions set out the basis upon which the Lender (Paragon) makes any Offer of Loan. Additional conditions, dealing with the particular circumstances of the Borrower, may be annexed to the Offer of Loan as Special Conditions.
2. THE BORROWER 
The expression 'the Borrower' shall include joint borrowers wherever appropriate. Joint Borrowers are liable individually and jointly and will sign the mortgage deed as joint mortgagors.
3. PERIOD OF OFFER 
3.1 - The Lender may withdraw the Offer of Loan at any time (even though the Borrower may have signed an Acceptance).
3.2 - The Offer of Loan will lapse (without the Lender giving notice to the Borrower) if:-
3.2.1 - the Acceptance is not returned, properly signed, within 1 month of the Offer of Loan being issued; or
3.2.2 - the Loan is not advanced within 3 months of the Offer of Loan being issued. 
4. PAYMENT OF THE LOAN 
4.1 - The Loan will be advanced to the Lender's solicitors by telegraphic transfer one working day prior to the advised date for completion. A telegraphic transfer fee will be payable by the Borrower and will be deducted from the Loan together with any deductions stated on the Special Conditions.
4.2 - With purchases the Loan must be used for the purchase of the Property. With remortgages the Loan must be used to repay existing charges except where there is an element of capital raising in which case the excess raised is payable to the Borrower (subject to any Special Condition or express instruction to the contrary).
5. TITLE 
Title to the Property is to be approved by the Lender's solicitor. This Offer of Loan is made subject to the Borrower having or acquiring at completion of the Loan a good and marketable title to the Property. In all cases, the Borrower must execute a first Legal Charge over the Property in favour of the Lender. 
6. COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS 
The Borrower is responsible for all costs and disbursements (including those of the Lender's solicitor) incurred by the Lender in connection with or arising out of the Offer of Loan. This is the case whether or not the Loan is completed. 
7. BUILDINGS INSURANCE 
7.1 - The Lender will insure the Property (as distinct from any contents) under the Paragon Mortgages Block Buildings Scheme unless the Borrower elects, in the Acceptance, to insure the Property (and contents) under the Homeloans Direct comprehensive Home Insurance Scheme or a circumstance set out in 7.3 or 7.4 applies. Details of both Paragon Mortgages schemes accompany the Offer of Loan. The Lender shall insure the Property in the joint names of the Borrower and the Lender for the sum specified in the Offer of Loan.
7.2 - Insurance will commence on the date of completion of the Loan unless otherwise agreed in writing. 
7.3 - If the Borrower wishes to insure the Property the Lender's prior written approval must be obtained. A letter of undertaking from the relevant insurers to the Lender, in the Lender's standard form, must be forwarded to the Lender prior to completion. Evidence of payment of the current year's premium must be produced to the Lender on request.
7.4 - Where the Property is leasehold and it is a term of the Lease that the Landlord is entitled to arrange Buildings Insurance the relevant Lender will require a letter of undertaking from the Insurer, in the Lender's standard form, to be forwarded to the Lender prior to completion. The interest of the Lender must be noted on the policy.
7.5 - Where the Lender does not arrange Buildings Insurance the Borrower must contribute towards the cost to the Lender of taking out insurance in respect of any loss to the Lender as a result of any inadequacy in the insurance arranged. The amount of the Borrower's contribution shall be as set out in the Special Conditions and deducted from the Loan.
7.6 - Where the Lender insures the Property the premium will be paid by the Borrower by inclusion in the Payment. Any - revision to the sum insured and the premium will be advised to the Borrower. 
8. INTEREST AND MONTHLY PAYMENTS 
8.1 - The rate of interest applicable to the Loan and the Payment will be as specified in the Offer of Loan. These may be varied from time to time in accordance with the Mortgage Conditions and/or Offer of Loan.
8.2 - If any change in the rate of interest occurs after the date of the Offer of Loan but prior to the date of completion the Lender may give the Borrower notice of the change and any consequent change in Payments by any method permitted under the Mortgage Conditions.
8.3 - Interest is charged from the date on which funds are transmitted to the Lender's legal advisor but will cease to run when returned to the Lender by telegraphic transfer. No interest is charged where the Lender's legal advisor returns the funds to the Lender by telegraphic transfer within one working day of transmission by the Lender.
8.4 - The first payment (which includes any additional interest chargeable for the period prior to completion) will be collected on the fifth working day after completion.
8.5 - Subject to 8.6, subsequent payments will be charged in arrear on the last business day in each month.
8.6 - The dates for the first and subsequent payments may be varied at the Lender's discretion.
9. MORTGAGE INDEMNITY POLICY 
Where the Lender has agreed to lend more than 70% of the purchase price or, if lower, the valuation of the Property, the Loan must be supported by mortgage indemnity insurance cover arranged by the Lender. The Offer of Loan indicates whether this is required. There will be a charge payable which will be added to the amount of the Loan and paid direct by the Lender to the insurer on completion of the Loan. The Borrower should be aware that the existence of the cover will not prevent enforcement of any security and is for the benefit of the Lender alone. Whilst the Lender will have all or part of any post-sale shortfall paid under the terms of the cover, the full shortfall will be recoverable from the Borrower. 
10. MIRAS 
The Lender is a 'Qualifying Lender' for the purposes of the MIRAS (Mortgage Interest Relief at Source) Scheme and will accept interest payments net of tax to the extent the Scheme applies and permits. 
11. FURTHER BORROWINGS 
No further mortgage of the Property may be created by the Borrower without the Lender's prior written consent.
12. VACANT POSSESSION AND OCCUPATION 
12.1 - Full vacant possession of the Property must be obtained on completion of the Loan. Any person aged 17 or over at completion who is to reside at the Property with the Borrower shall execute a Deed of Consent in the form required by the Lender.
12.2 - Throughout the duration of the mortgage the Borrower must not part with or share possession of the Property without the Lender's prior written consent
13. TRANSFER OF MORTGAGE 
The Lender reserves the right at any time to assign any interest it may have in the loan or any security for its repayment. 
14. VALUATION REPORT 
A copy of the valuation report obtained by the Lender may be issued to the Borrower as a courtesy. This valuation has been obtained for the Lender's sole benefit and will confer no rights on the Borrower against the Lender or the Valuer. The Report is not a survey and the duty of the Valuer is limited to advising the Lender as to the suitability of the Property as security for the Loan. Neither the Lender nor the Valuer therefore accept any responsibility for the workmanship construction or condition of the Property which are matters upon which the Borrower must satisfy himself. Any defects to which reference is made in the Offer of Loan were apparent to the Valuer when he made his inspection but he was not requested to carry out a full structural survey nor to test the services. There may be defects in the Property which would only be revealed by a full structural survey. The Borrower is therefore strongly advised to arrange for a full structural survey to be carried out before entering into any commitment to purchase the Property or take an advance secured on it and the Lender cannot accept any responsibility for any loss or damage suffered by the Borrower as a result of a failure to arrange such a survey. 
15. REPAYMENT 
The Special Conditions may provide that if a Borrower wishes to repay all or part of the Loan early he may have to pay an amount in addition to the repayment. 
16. MAIN RESIDENCE 
The Property must be used as the main residence of the Borrower.
17. DIRECT DEBIT 
The Lender requires that payments to be made by the Borrower should be made by direct debit. This Offer of Loan may be withdrawn by the Lender if the direct debit instruction given by the Borrower is not accepted by the Borrower's bankers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
