
	
	
	
	Savings Products
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	Correct as of 19/12/2001 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 Notice 
	Rate 
	
	
	
	
	
- Rainbow 60
	
	 
	upto 4.00% 
	
	
	 Instant Access 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
- Rainbow Instant Access
	
- Aquarius
	
- Monthly Saver
	
- Young Saver
	
- Charity
	
	 
	upto 2.25%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	2.75%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	upto 4.25%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	2.75%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	2.75% 
	
	
	 Tax Free 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
- Mini Cash ISA
	
- TESSA Only ISA
	
	 
	4.25%
	
	
	
	
	
	
	4.25% 
	
	
	 Closed Issues 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Savings Menu
	Savings Guide
	Tariff Of Charges
	Terms & Conditions
	Charitable Assignment
	Financial Services
	 Compensation Scheme
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	IMPORTANT NOTES SECTION
	The services referred to in this web site are only available to United Kingdom residents.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	The information provided does not constitute financial or professional advice.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	All products and services are subject to availability and may be withdrawn or amended at any time without notice.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Every care is taken to ensure the accuracy of the information presented. Written details are available on request.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	These terms shall be governed by English Law.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Written quotations are available on request, subject to status.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	A first charge over the property will be required as security for a mortgage
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	All mortgages are subject to status, valuation and a minimum age of 18.
	
	
	
	
	
	Marsden Building Society is a member of the Financial Ombudsman Scheme and the General Insurance Standards Council. The Society has an internal complaints procedure, details of which are available on request. Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The Society subscribes to the Banking and Mortgage Codes, copies of which are available on request.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Marsden Building Society introduces to the Norwich Union Marketing Group (NUMG) for life assurance, pensions and investments.The Society and NUMG are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
	Principal Office 6-20 Russell Street Nelson Lancashire BB9 7NJ 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	Marsden Building Society : Savings 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
