
Fees for Mortgage Services
 
 
 
 
Fees
 for Mortgage Services
 
 
 
We make charges for some of the services which we provide. We have
 produced this page so that you may take fees into consideration when using our services.
 Fees debited to your mortgage account will be charged at the interest rate applicable to
 your mortgage.
 
 
 
Administration Fees
 
Adding or removing someone&#146;s name - £100
 
We charge for the process of agreeing to the transfer, and for the
 sealing of the transfer deed.
 
Amendment to original terms and conditions of mortgage - £100
 
This covers any changes you may make to the term or method of repaying
 your mortgage.
 
Approval of a legal document by society solicitors - £260 (maximum)
 
This covers changes to the details of the security that we hold, such
 as releasing part of your land etc. This charge will also apply to approval of leases,
 tenancy agreements etc, should you let your property.
 
Arrangements of own buildings insurance policy - £25
 
If you wish to take out buildings insurance which is not arranged
 through the society, we require certain conditions to be met and will charge this once
 only fee.
 
Completion fee - £25
 
This covers the charge for the release of your advance or further
 advance monies. If your solicitor does not give the society a minimum of five working days
 notice when requesting the advance funds, a further urgent completion charge of £50 will
 be deducted from the advance monies.
 
Copy of deeds and documents - £25 per document/£50 full deeds
 
We make a charge for retrieving and copying documents held with your
 title deeds. This also applies if you wish to inspect your deeds at the society&#146;s
 head office.
 
Duplicate mortgage statement - £25
 
Early repayment fee
 
Specific details of fees and charges will be provided in the offer of
 advance.
 
Information retrieval fee - £25
 
We make a charge for retrieving and supplying information, e.g.
 interest rate history, etc.
 
Letting arrangement fee - £100
 
If you let your property, we charge this fee for the administration of
 setting up the arrangements. We may also charge an additional 1% interest on your mortgage
 interest rate for the duration of the letting. This fee also applies if the terms of a
 lease need to be changed after the lease has been completed and approved. This does not
 include the cost of the society&#146;s solicitor approving the lease (see Approval of
 legal document by society solicitors).
 
Return cheque - £25
 
This covers our costs if we have to re-present a cheque or return it to
 you.
 
Refund of overpayment - £25
 
We charge this fee for the return of any overpayments made to your
 mortgage account after it has been redeemed.
 
Second mortgage questionnaires - £80
 
If you want to take out a second loan with another lender, they must
 ask us for details of the loan you have with us. The fee must be paid in full before we
 can reply to the lender.
 
Vacating fee - £40
 
We charge this fee when you redeem your mortgage and it will be
 included in your final settlement figure. It covers the administration involved in
 retrieving and processing the deeds documentation. A further charge of £40 will be made
 if your solicitor does not provide the necessary discharge form (DS1) on redemption.
 
Collection and Recovery Fee
 
Arrears letter - £25
 
There is no charge for the first arrears letter we send. A charge will
 be made for each further letter sent.
 
Arrears visit - £50
 
If it is necessary for us to visit you because we have been unable to
 make contact by telephone or letter, the fee covers our costs for doing so.
 
Charges by solicitors
 
If your mortgage is in arrears and we are unable to come to a
 satisfactory arrangement with you, we may refer your account to our solicitors. The
 solicitors&#146; costs will be debited to your account
 
Unsatisfactory conduct &#150; up to £500
 
Should your mortgage not be conducted to the society&#146;s
 satisfaction, this fee may be charged on redemption to reflect the additional costs of
 administering your mortgage account.
 
Other Charges
 
When you take out a new loan, a further advance or
 switch to a new product, we may charge in respect of valuation, application or arrangement
 fees. These charges will be specific to your individual application and will be explained
 to you prior to any charges being made.
 
Valuation fees
 
These vary in accordance with the value of the property (see mortgage
 application form for detail) and are paid to an external valuer.
 
Data protection
 
You have certain rights of access to personal data that the society
 holds about you. If you require access, there will be a charge of £10.
 
These charges are inclusive of VAT where applicable and may be subject
 to change.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR
 OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. 
 
 
 
 
 
