PVCS Revision: $Revision: 19 $
-->
Yorkshire Building Society | Saving for the Future
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Savings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your savings needs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saving for children
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saving for daily needs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saving for the future
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tax-free savings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
Saving for the future
 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
What are your long-term aims?
 
	 
- Capital growth for future security - longer term savings with interest added to build up your savings?
OR
	 
- An income from your savings - interest paid regularly for you to use?
	 
	
	Having decided your aims, there are a number of things to consider when choosing a savings account. Our Decision tree may help.
	
Can you save over several years or will you need access to your money?	
	
	You will get the best return on your savings if you can afford to put your money away for several years, into an account where access is limited. If you are going to need access to your savings sooner then you may need an account which does not penalise you for withdrawing funds.
	
	
Do you want to deposit a lump sum or to save on a regular basis?
	
	In choosing an account for a lump sum you will need to consider, for example, the minimum deposit requirements, whether you can add to your initial lump sum and if there is a "maturity" date.
	
	When choosing an account for regular payments, look out for any restrictions or limits. If you choose the tax advantages of an ISA, make sure that you don't exceed the maximum amount for that tax year, to avoid being taxed on your interest.
	
	
Do you want risk-free savings or will you take a risk for a higher return?
	
 	
	
	
Higher risk investments
	 
	
	
	
- These are generally "equity" based investments, i.e. those based on investing on the stock market, although there is a wide variety of high risk investments.
	
- Examples are shares in particular companies, Unit Trusts or equity based ISAs.
	
- The potential returns are higher but so are the risks in that the value of your savings could go down as well as up.
	
- If you are interested in high risk investments, make sure you get sound financial advice first.
	
- We can arrange an interview with a Legal & General Financial Adviser, which can be held at one of our branches or in your own home.
	
	 
	
	
	
	
Low risk savings
	 
	
	
	
- A Building Society account offers a great risk-free way of saving.
	
- If you do not need regular access to your money or can leave your money untouched for a longer period, you can get higher rates of interest.
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
Monthly income
	 
	
	
	
- You can generally get an investment that pays a regular income whatever type of savings you select.
	
- With this option, the interest your savings earn is paid into an account of your choice, generally monthly.
	
	 
	
	
	
	
Offshore Accounts
	
	Depending on your circumstances, you could consider an offshore account. Interest from offshore accounts is paid gross, i.e. there is no deduction of tax, but it is your responsibility to disclose to the relevant tax authority the amount of interest credited. For more information about offshore accounts, visit the Yorkshire Guernsey website. Yorkshire Guernsey is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Yorkshire Building Society.
	
	
	
Online Research
	
	There are a number of financial sites offering free advice.This is money is a good place to start.
	
	 
Decision tree
	 
	 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Have you already invested in an ISA this tax year? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consider 
 opening an ISA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do you want to save a lump sum or make regular contributions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regular contributions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lump sum 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do you need instant access to your money? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do you want an online account? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access saver 
	
	
 
(min £100)
Interest Rates 
	
	 
 
Postal Saver 
	
	
 
(min £1000)
Interest Rates 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
E-Saver 
 
	 
	 
(min £1,000)
Interest Rates 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly saver
 
 
	 
	 	
(min £10)
Interest Rates 
	 
 	 
	 	
Notice Saver 
	 
 	 
	 	
(min £100)
Interest Rates 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rollover Bond 
 
 
 
(min £100)
 Interest Rates 
 
 
 
Notice Saver 
 
	 
 
(min £100)
Interest Rates 
 
	 
 
Offshore account 
 
	 
 
(min £5,000)
 
 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 	 
	
	
	 
Yorkshire Building Society is a representative only of the Legal & General marketing group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for the purposes of making introductions to other representatives for recommending, advising on and selling life assurance and investment products bearing Legal & General's name.
	
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
