	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	All products and services
	Home
	Mortgages
	Savings
	Life Insurance
	
	Travel Money
	Money Transfer
	Contact Us
	Your Society
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	
	
	 
Your Society...
LATEST NEWS
FINANCIAL PLANNING
RECRUITMENT
SERVICES FOR COMPANIES
PRIVILEGED MEMBERSHIP
Introduction
Investment Products
Mortgage Rate Discount
	 	
	
	
Latest News	
	THE WEST BROM LEADS THE WAY ON RACIAL EQUALITY
	Thu, Jun 20, 2002
	
CELEBRATE WITH NEW BOND
	Mon, Jun 17, 2002
	
WEST BROM AGAIN DELIVERS RECORD RESULTS
	Thu, Jun 13, 2002
	
Church Fund Reaps Rewards for Community Groups
	Thu, Jun 13, 2002
	
The West Brom Launches Market Leading Mortgage
	Thu, Jun 13, 2002
	
SADDLERS BOYS ARE HIGH FLYERS
	Thu, Jun 13, 2002
	
New Guaranteed Bonus Bond from the West Brom
	Fri, Feb 8, 2002
	
 	
	
	
	
The West Brom has been a mutual building society for over 150 years and is committed to staying that way.	
That's because, as a mutual building society, we don't have to pay dividends to outside shareholders. This means that we are able to pass on more to our members in the form of better rates of interest and additional benefits for loyal members through our Privileged Membership Scheme.
	
	It also means that we can continue to operate in the best interests of our members and the communities we serve. All local branches are actively involved with their local community.
	
	
	Facts & figures	 	
	
- We employ over 800 staff.	 	
	
- We have 44 branches mainly in our West Midlands heartland and 4 mortgage bureaux in key cities nationally.	 	
	
- We are the ninth largest building society and have assets of over £3.3billion	 	
	
- We are one of the oldest building societies in the UK, thriving for 150 years without merger or takeover.	 	
	
- We demonstrate our commitment to mutuality and last year gave £15m back to our members.	 	
	
- We invest more than £500,000 each year in the communities we have grown from, through sponsorship and support for community and grass roots projects.	 	
	 	
	
	
Report and Accounts
	
Find out more about the Society by downloading a summary of last year's Report and Accounts, the files are supplied in PDF format (1mb) and require Adobe Acrobat Reader to view them.
	
	
The core values which provide the framework for our ongoing success are:	
- We will continue to provide value-for-money investment, mortgage and related products by responding to customers&#146; changing needs and priorities.	
- We will strive to act in our members&#146; best interests and constantly seek ways to reward their loyalty through continuous service enhancements and by sharing tangible financial benefits of our continued success.	
- We will ensure our underlying financial strength provides exceptional security for our members.	
- We will strive to deal with our customers fairly, honestly and with the highest integrity, recognising that openness and trust are essential to the creation and maintenance of mutually rewarding relationships.	
- We will seek to provide an excellent friendly service delivered by a dedicated, skilled and professionally qualified staff using technology to optimise overall efficiency and productivity in a modern and professional retail environment.	
- We will continue to be a good neighbour to the local communities we serve, through full and active involvement and by supporting local charities, worthy causes and other community-based activities.
	
Below are some of the initiatives we support and some of the awards we have won:
	
	
 	 	 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
For help and professional advice,
	 fill in the details below
	and we'll call you back. 
	
	
	
Enter your full phone number: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Enter your name and extension number (if applicable): 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Call me:
	
	Now
	In 5 Minutes
	In 10 Minutes
	In 15 Minutes
	In 30 Minutes
	In 1 Hour
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Please note: Lines are open 8.30am -7pm Monday to Friday, 9am - 12noon Saturday. We can only service calls from the UK.
Remember, if you only have one phone line and are using it to connect to the Net, you will need to hang up so we can ring you. 
	
	
	 
	
 	
	 	 	 	
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for Life Assurance, Pensions and Investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of the Society and Norwich Union. These pages are only for the use of those persons who are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK. The Society accepts no responsibility for the content held on other websites to which you may be directed. The society is a member of the Financial Services Ombudsman and is a signatory to the Banking Code and the Mortgage Code. To obtain copies of these codes, please click on the relevant link. Copies are also available in our branches.
	
Worried about security? Then view our security and privacy policy. 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	© West Bromwich Building Society 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
