
Skipton Building Society - mortgages - flexible head start mortgage
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	mortgage portfolio 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Portfolio
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Request a Pack
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Guide
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Monthly Payment Calculator
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Flexible Mortgage Savings Calculator
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	How Much Can I Borrow Calculator
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Tariff of Charges (PDF)
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Jargon Buster
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Moving Home Checklist
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	English Guide to Moving
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Scottish Guide to Moving
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Call Me
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Code
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	This exciting new Skipton mortgage has been specifically designed to provide a head start for first time home buyers or low-costs for re-mortgages. It provides you with discounted mortgage payments as well as legal fees. It's an overall winning combination and will, indeed, give you a free or fixed head start with Skipton.
	
	Key Benefits
	
	
	
- 1.30% product discount for 6 months.
	
- Then 0.80% product discount for 6 months.
	
- Then 0.30% product discount for 24 months.
	
- Concessionary Mortgage Discount Scheme+
	
- Current pay rate from only 4.40% (5.3% APR).
	
- Free re-mortgage legal fees (or £250 cashback in Scotland).
	
- £250 cashback**
	
- Free HPLF (High Percentage Loan Fee) up to 95%++
	
- No compulsary insurance.
	
- Valuation fee refund up to £200*
	
- No completion fee.
	
- Flexible benefits
	
	
- Daily interest
	
- Payment holidays
	
- Overpayments.
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Flexible Mortgage Savings Calculator
 - see just how much you could save
 with a Skipton Flexible Mortgage 
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	">
	
	
	Concessionary Discount Scheme+
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 	Our new Mortgage Discount Scheme is designed to reward long standing borrowers. Following your initial 3 year product discount period you will receive a 
	0.3% discount off our variable rate (currently 5.70%) year 4. Following this period, the discount is increased to 0.5% 
	off the variable rate applicable to your mortgage at that time, so you can receive long-term benefits and value for the full term of your mortgage.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Monthly Payment Calculator
 - see what your mortgage
 payments could be 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	">
	
	
	Legal fees package
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	If you are looking to re-mortgage in England and Wales we will pay your legal fees (£250 cashback paid in Scotland) if you use our Home Conveyancing Service. Or if you are looking to purchase and/or sell a property we have a great fixed fee legal package, plus you can receive a £250 cashback which may be used towards the costs. See our Skipton Home Conveyancing Service section for details.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	">
	
	
	Free HPLF
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	If you wish to borrow more than 75% of the valuation or purchase price (whichever is the lower), the Society will charge you a High Percentage Loan Fee (HPLF). This fee will be used to protect the Society in the event that you default on your mortgage.++
	
	We charge this fee as a one off premium which will be added to your mortgage account.
	
	But, with our Head Start Mortgage, you don't have to pay a penny as we will credit your mortgage account with an amount equivalent to the HPLF on completion.
	 
	
	 
	
	
	">
	
	
	How much can I borrow?
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	Provided you have been in permanent employment for at least three months, we'll lend up to 3.5 times your annual salary. If you're applying in joint names, the whole of your partner's salary can be added too. Or you can borrow 2.75 times your combined incomes. The maximum advance we'll grant with this scheme is 95% of the valuation or purchase price of the property, whichever is the lower.
	 
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	See how much you could borrow
 - with our new calculator 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	">
	
	
	Skipton Insurance
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	If you opt for this Head Start Mortgage you can choose whichever of these three excellent policies best suits your requirements. 
	
	
	
	
	Option 1
	 
	
	
	
	Skipton House and Contents is the ideal policy if you require comprehensive cover for your home and its contents. What's more, your personal possessions are covered automatically and the contents of your home are covered against accidental damage too. Make sure you ask for details of how you can receive 6 months Skipton Assured cover absolutely FREE when you take out this policy. 
	
	
	
	
	Option 2
	 
	
	
	
	Buildings Insurance gives you comprehensive cover, including the cost of alternative temporary accomodation, and accidental damage to buildings. 
	
	
	
	
	Option 3
	 
	
	
	
	Skipton Assured provides security and peace of mind should you be unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment. You really should think about taking out this essential payment protection insurance in addition to one of the household insurances. 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	">
	
	
	Mortgage Advice
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	Under the Code of Mortgage Lending Practice, lenders may either provide customers with advice or give information on the mortgage products available. We believe that choosing your mortgage is one of the most important decisions that you are ever likely to make, and we will advise you on what we feel is the most suitable product from our range to meet your needs. So when you're ready to talk over your application, if you do not have your own Financial Adviser, just call into your local Skipton branch. Alternatively you can call Customer Service on 01756 705035.*
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	">
	
	
	Complaints procedure
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	If you are not happy with our service, we have an internal complaints procedure. You can view this in the Customer Service area of this site or ask for details of this procedure at a branch or from our Principal Office. Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
	
	 	
	
	
	">
	
	
	Further Information
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
- Monthly payments must be made in advance by Direct Debit on the 1st of each month. The interest rates quoted include a 0.25% Direct Debit discount. If the Direct Debit is cancelled, this discount is removed.
	
- You can make a capital repayment of up to 10% of the original loan each year without charge within 3 years of completion. 
	
- Any capital repayment greater than 10% of the original loan made in any one year within 3 years from completion will be subject to a charge of 2% of the capital repaid.
	
- If the mortgage is repaid in full within 3 years of completion, an early redemption fee of 2% of the balance of the mortgage account at the date of redemption will be payable.
	
- If the mortgage is repaid in full after 3 years from completion interest up to the end of the month of redemption will be payable.
	
- If you move house within 3 years of completion, the mortgage product is portable and can be applied to the new property. (Please note: Any Concessionary Mortgage Scheme Discount is not portable).
	
- If you exercise portability within 3 years of completion and the mortgage required for the new property is lower than the balance on the existing mortgage, a capital repayment fee will be payable on the difference between the loans as detailed above.
	
- Minimum acceptable property value £25,000.
	
- The cost of valuing the property including a non-refundable administration charge of £45, is as follows:-
	 
	
	 	
	
	
	">
	
	
	Property Value
	 
	
	
	Cost
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	Up to £50,000 
	£140 
	
	£50,001 - £75,000 
	£160 
	
	£75,001 - £100,000 
	£175 
	
	£100,001 - £150,000 
	£200 
	
	£150,001 - £200,000 
	£230 
	
	£200,001 - £250,000 
	£270 
	
	£250,001 - £300,000 
	£310 
	
	£300,001 - £350,000 
	£350 
	
	£350,001 - £400,000 
	£375 
	
	£400,001 - £450,000 
	£405 
	
	£450,001 - £500,000 
	£445 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	NB The valuer's report is for mortgage purposes only and does not guarantee that the property is free from defects.
	
	You may require a Homebuyers Report or Buildings Survey if you are purchasing a property. Ask your Mortgage Adviser for details.
	
	**The £250 cashback is available only for purchases in England and Wales. It is available for purchases and remortgages in Scotland.
	
	*Maximum £200, excluding £45 admin fee.
	
	+It is intended that the Scheme will continue in force for the remainder of the term of the mortgage although the Board of Directors of the Society do have the right in their discretion to vary the terms of the concessionary Scheme or to withdraw or to vary the amount of the Scheme Discount at any time. If they do so they will give you reasonable advance notice. The present view of the Board is that they would only be likely to do so as a result of exceptional circumstances arising from major changes in market conditions or general building society, banking or other lending practice.
	
	++High Percentage Loan Fees (HPLF) are used to provide extra security to protect the Society if you default on your mortgage and your property is taken into possession and is sold for less than you owe. This will protect the Society but it does not protect you. You will remain liable to pay all sums owing, including arrears, interest and our legal fees. If a claim is paid to the Society under a third party insurance, paid for out of the HPLF, the insurers will normally have the right to recover this amount from you.
	
	
	TYPICAL EXAMPLE - Flexible Head Start Mortgage at 4.40% (APR 5.3%)
	
	The APR of 5.3% assumes that the discounted variable rate of 4.40% continues for 6 months then the discounted variable rate of 4.90% 
	continues for 6 months then the discounted variable rate of 5.40% continues for 36 months, followed by 5.20% (current variable rate with Mortgage Scheme Discount) throughout the remaining term of the mortgage. 
	The APR has been calculated on the basis of a £50,000 interest only loan (purchase price £69,000) over a 25 year term, and includes a £45 sealing fee.
	
	The rate of 4.40% (5.3% APR) requires 6 monthly interest repayments of £184, 6 monthly interest payments of £205, 36 monthly interest payments of £225 and 252 monthly 
	interest payments of £217. Total amount payable £115,163.00.
	
	The APR is variable. Subject to status and valuation. Minimum age 18 years. The Society requires a first mortgage on the property. If two or more 
	monthly payments are outstanding at any time, the rate charged will increase to the Society's variable rate (excluding Direct Debit discount). 
	Written quotations available on request. Skipton Assured cover is provided by London & Edinburgh. Skipton Buildings Insurance and Skipton House 
	and Contents are provided by CGU International Insurance PLC, a member of the CGNU PLC group of companies.
	
	Security will be required for any loan.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. 
	 
	
	
	
	The Society supports the Code of Mortgage Lending Practice, copies of which are available on request.
	
	* To help maintain service quality, some telephone calls with customers may be recorded and monitored.
	
	The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group. Both the Society and Norwich Union are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	
	Any financial advice given on life assurance, pensions and investments will relate only to products and services of the Society and Norwich Union.
	
	
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
