
BRISTOL & WEST
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
We are often asked for our views on key industry issues and periodically we issue 'Viewpoint', which brings together these opinions into one document. You can view our corporate stance on line in relation to the topics listed below.
If you would like more information on these issues, or you would like a quote from one of our spokespeople, please contact the Press Office either by phone or email us with your enquiry.
Best Rate/Best Deal
CP98
Specialised Lending
Buy to Let
Next Steps for Flexible mortgages
Best Rate/Best Deal
Mortgages are a complicated package and it is unwise to be drawn solely towards headline rates. We believe that borrowers should be looking at value for money over the entire lifetime of the contract, bearing in mind redemption charges, valuation, arrangement and legal fees, discount periods and cash-backs. Getting into best rate tables is clearly the objective of all lenders, but even here there are discrepancies as to how these are constructed and what the criteria are.
Even the term ‘best deal’ is a misnomer, for what is a great deal for one borrower is not for another. Someone who is risk averse will enjoy the security of a fixed rate, whereas someone with an uneven income stream will be attracted by, say, a flexible mortgage. Bristol & West aims to present a range of mortgages to suit as many different circumstances as possible. We believe that borrowers should be looking at their own priorities in the following areas to achieve their individual ‘best deal’:
- Flexibility
- Portability
- Added costs
- Level of payments and variability
- Customer service and availability of information
- Access to advice
CP98
Bristol & West’s main issue with CP98 and the mortgage regulations is that it fails to address, in our opinion, the principle cause of customer detriment - that of poor and/or misleading advice by advisers. Moreover the scope and cost of the regulations are disproportionate to the benefits arising from them, particularly as the most significant detriment issue of poor and misleading advice is not addressed at all.
However our task as lenders must be to ensure that we follow and support the regulations once they are formulated in a workable fashion and we hope that, eventually, they deliver real customer advantage.
Specifically, we have some key issues:
We do see the regulations having a significant impact on many intermediaries’ ability to enter into financial promotions. Many mortgage intermediaries will not be regulated and, therefore, will not have a suitably authorised person on their staff to carry out the advertising approval process. It is not clear to us who will be responsible for enforcing the rules where an intermediary’s promotion does not comply with regulations and has not been approved by an authorised person.
Lender responsibility for intermediary delivery of the disclosure requirements is a major issue for both the lending and intermediary community. The disclosure document itself will require the intermediary to change sales processes and ensure there are systems to deliver a document for which they have no regulatory responsibility and over which we have been advised, by the FSA itself, they have not been consulted to a significant degree.
We do not believe that the pre-application illustration adds any significant benefit to the consumer, over and above the current literature and quotation packages used, but does add significant costs which are disproportionate to the benefits offered. Customers seeking advice will inevitably end up with a number of personalised illustrations and the very size and complexity of each document will make comparison difficult, which defeats the very object of the exercise. It is worth noting that the pre-application disclosure on investment products is considerable, but all the evidence shows that it is too complicated for customers and not delivering any real advantage.
With customers seeking ever shorter ‘lead times’ between application and a qualified acceptance, online ‘approval in principle’ applications, with virtually instantaneous and credit scored acceptances, are becoming very popular. Should the rules prevent us from taking up a credit references until the potential applicant has received and accepted a personalised illustration this will add on an additional tier of activity to an online approval in principle application which will significantly reduce the benefit of this customer driven process.
We can see the value of some of the personalised illustration information being replicated in the offer document so that the applicant can check that there has been no fundamental change in the ‘deal’. However, to require the whole of the document to be replicated, say 7 pages (if font size 12 is used), followed by: our own offer conditions, special conditions, acceptance form and cancellation form where a cooling off period applies, say another 3 or 4 pages, seems to be a gross oversupply of information.
We doubt that the consumer, based on our current experience, will welcome cooling off periods. We can see the value of a ‘cooling off period’ for unsecured personal lending where, very often, a verbal application is made and the very first document the borrower receives is the offer of loan. However, we see very little benefit to the applicant in a ‘cooling off period’ for secured loans where the applicant has already gone through a number of stages, has, inevitably, completed an application form, and is not committed to the deal until the legal charge is signed on the advice of a solicitor. Indeed, the ‘cooling off period’ is likely to cause the consumer a degree of irritation.
Specialised Lending
This is a relatively new market to Bristol & West and we now find ourselves in the position as the only High Street lender in the top 20 mortgage providers to have a specialist range of adverse credit and self-cert mortgages. We offer mortgages to those with County Court Judgements (CCJs) of up to £10,000 in value and upto 85% Loan to Value. With the growing trend amongst bigger lenders to use credit scoring as away of categorising borrowers to fit standard product criteria, there is a market for lenders such as ourselves to fill the gap. Unlike some other lenders who tempt adverse credit borrowers with introductory discounts, only to penalise them at the back end, we offer the option to migrate to Bank of England Base Rate plus 1.75% within 3 years, provided their payment record is good. This gives people the chance to recover and get back into the prime market as soon as possible.
Buy to Let
The recent flurry of activity in this sector, in response to better packaging of this type of mortgage, has been set amidst a mood of some cynicism that the renewed popularity of these mortgages would be short-lived. However, all the signs are that this market is maturing and remaining an important part of our core range. With the long-term outlook for interest rates still set on a downward course, the margins for landlords receiving rental income are growing. And the market for rented accommodation in prime locations is still strengthening, particularly as more and more contractors move around the country with their families. We see three objectives for borrowers considering an investment in property:
- Generating income- these borrowers will be looking for homes able to command a high rent, where house prices are stable at the very least.
- Generating capital growth - these borrowers will be more attracted by the potential for house prices to rise and rental income levels will be a secondary factor.
- A combination of both - perhaps the largest sector of the market, borrowers are looking for agood rental income together with the potential for consistent increases in house value. In this category are those who are looking to rent out a property they have earmarked for retirement.
Next Steps for Flex
Flexible mortgages are becoming more popular as borrowers grow confident about the way they work and the potential uses of the flexibility. For example:
- Self-employed people, especially, can use their mortgage account to save for their half-yearly tax payments;
- People can consolidate their debt into one low interest account;
- Higher rate taxpayers can earn considerably more than other savings accounts by paying off part of their outstanding mortgage balance, ‘saving’ interest at around 6.8% net (equivalent to 11 per cent gross) or more.
We believe that one of the key differentiators will be post-completion service, as borrowers begin to take advantage of the flexible options. Because these borrowers are tending to be more sophisticated in these early stages of the product, they will certainly be demanding high standards of service and clear communication. As more of these mortgages hit the market, borrowers will have more choice if they choose to move to the lender who performs best.
We see more Flex products coming to market as the concept eases into lenders’ core ranges, with the introduction of fixed and capped rates, as well as a wider selection of Flexilet mortgages.
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
