	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	All products and services
	Home
	Mortgages
	Savings
	Life Insurance
	
	Travel Money
	Money Transfer
	Contact Us
	Your Society
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	
	
	
	Your Society...	LATEST NEWS	FINANCIAL PLANNING	RECRUITMENT	SERVICES FOR COMPANIES	PRIVILEGED MEMBERSHIP	Introduction	Investment Products	Mortgage Rate Discount	Added Value Benefits	 	
	
 	[back to article list]
	THE WEST BROM LEADS THE WAY ON RACIAL EQUALITY
	Posted Thu, Jun 20, 2002. 	
The West Bromwich Building Society is a leading light in promoting the message that public and private sector organisations need to involve themselves more actively with minority ethnic communities.	
That was the impressive finding after the Society came an exceptional 4th out of 99 in a national survey of organisations which measured how far they are really engaging positively with ethnic minorities. Among private sector companies, this represented an outstanding ranking for the West Brom of 3rd place.
In the public sector category, the West Midlands region had two other excellent performers: Prime Focus and the West Midlands Police, who came 4th and 5th respectively in this section.
The benchmarking study Race: Creating Business Value was undertaken by Race for Opportunity (RfO). A Business in the Community campaign, RfO promotes the interest of ethnic minorities while also delivering tangible benefits to each and every organisation participating in the campaign. 
The benchmarking study, which was first carried out last year, assessed the progress of RfO member organisations on four main areas of business activity: employment, marketing to ethnic minorities, working with ethnic minority businesses, and community involvement. 
Where organisations performed particularly well in the study, the elements of leadership and a solid business case for working on racial equality were singled out as crucial. 
And when it comes to leadership, there is no better example of a passionate commitment to the issue of race than Andrew Messenger, the West Brom’s Chief Executive and Chair of RfO in the West Midlands. 
For instance, 15% of the West Brom’s workforce is drawn from an ethnic minority background, reflecting the proportion of ethnic minorities in the communities it serves. This figure increases even further amongst staff participating in the Society's ‘Fast Track Development Programme’, which caters for ‘high flyers’ showing particular aptitude and potential.
The benchmarking report also described how the West Brom has made a genuine effort to reach ethnic minorities through a variety of marketing methods, such as popular Asian radio stations, advertising campaigns, leaflets and literature available in assorted ethnic minority languages. Its introduction of the Global Money Transfer, too, which was endorsed by Government Minister, Paul Boateng, illustrated further the West Brom’s sensitivity to the specific needs of ethnic minorities.
The RfO benchmarking report is the only authoritative assessment of what the private sector in the UK, and their public sector counterparts, are doing on race in 2002. Seen in this light, the West Brom’s high placing appears even more impressive. 
Andrew Messenger, who received the highly coveted Mortgage Finance Gazette Editor’s Award last year for his outstanding contribution in this field, has spearheaded the Society’s success in responding to the needs of ethnic minority communities. The Society’s equal opportunities policies and practices have also been recognised through external awards.
At the Midlands Excellence Awards 2001, the Society took the title of Equal Opportunities Employer of the Year for its desire to recruit and retain talented staff, irrespective of background.
At the same time, Andrew Messenger is aware that there is no room for complacency on an issue as vital as racial equality. As he says: "Our performance fills me with considerable pride. To be placed so highly in this respected national survey is a great encouragement to us all at the West Brom. Nevertheless, like all organisations who took part in the study, we know that there is still much ground to be covered. Together with other organisations within the West Midlands, I believe Race for Opportunity can help point the way on how we can all succeed more effectively in making racial equality matter.”
	
	 	 	
	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	
	
	 	 	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
For help and professional advice,
	 fill in the details below
	and we'll call you back. 
	
	
	
Enter your full phone number: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Enter your name and extension number (if applicable): 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Call me:
	
	Now
	In 5 Minutes
	In 10 Minutes
	In 15 Minutes
	In 30 Minutes
	In 1 Hour
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Please note: Lines are open 8.30am -7pm Monday to Friday, 9am - 12noon Saturday. We can only service calls from the UK.
Remember, if you only have one phone line and are using it to connect to the Net, you will need to hang up so we can ring you. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
Email this article to a friend:	 	
	
Your name:	 	 	
	
Your email address:	 	 	
	
Recipients email address:	 	 	
	
Add your message:	 	 	
	 	 	
	 	
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for Life Assurance, Pensions and Investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of the Society and Norwich Union. These pages are only for the use of those persons who are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK. The Society accepts no responsibility for the content held on other websites to which you may be directed. The society is a member of the Financial Services Ombudsman and is a signatory to the Banking Code and the Mortgage Code. To obtain copies of these codes, please click on the relevant link. Copies are also available in our branches.
	
Worried about security? Then view our security and privacy policy. 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	© West Bromwich Building Society 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
