
The Hanley Economic Building Society Savings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Database Results Error
[Microsoft][ODBC Microsoft Access Driver] Cannot open database '(unknown)'. It may not be a database that your application recognizes, or the file may be corrupt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As a small
 mutual Society based in the Potteries, The
 Hanley can offer
 you a range of savings products to suit your needs whether you are a
 long term investor, a regular saver or looking for tax free returns.
 
With our best accounts
 receiving national media acclaim be assured that we offer competitive
 rates and flexible terms and conditions, and will continue to do so in
 the future.
 
To help you to access our
 range of available products. Products are grouped under generic titles
 of Notice, Postal,
 Tax Efficient Savings, Fixed Rate, Term, Young Savers and Affinity
 Schemes. 
 
To check our current
 savings rates on all of our products simply access our Rates
 page.
 
For the young saver we
 have an account specially designed for you, The
 Hanley 21st Century Saver which offers an opening
 gift and a range of competitions to enter throughout the year.
 
If you want to know more
 about our products please use the Feedback
 form to send for details on our range of Savings products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Hanley is a member of :-
 The Building Societies Association, The Council of Mortgage Lenders and The Financial Ombudsman Service. 
 
The Society is committed to the observance of the Code of Good
 Banking
 
 
Investor Protection
 
The Society is a member
 of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the
 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments under this scheme are
 limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2,000 of
 an investor's total shares/or deposits and 90% of the next £33,000.
 
Details of our investment
 charges are available on request from Head Office, any branch or agency.
The Society subscribes to the
 Banking Code Standards Board which aims to ensure that personal customers
 get a fair deal from all banking and building societies 
 which subscribe to the code. 
 
Copies
 of the Banking Code are available from our branch offices or by
 phoning the number below.
Click here to visit
 the Banking Code Standards Board Web Site 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Savings
 Freephone
 Number: 0800
 838811 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
