
	Loughborough Building Society
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Username 
	 
	
	
	Password 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 	 
	 
 
 mortgages 
 
	 
	 	 
	 
 
 savings and
investments 
 
	 
	 	 
	 
 
 other services 
 
	 
	 	 
	 
 
 branches
and agents 
 
	 
	 	 
	 
 
 feedback 
 
	 
	 	 
	 
 
 what's new 
 
	 
	 	 
	 
 
 about us 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
personal accounts 
 
commercial accounts 
 
norwich union 
 
sundry charges 
 
 
 
Savings and Investments
Personal Accounts
	
	
 
 
 
 The Loughborough Bond II 
 - A 2 year account paying our best variable rate 
 
 
 
 Instant Access Account 
 - Save and withdraw whenever you want to 
 
 
 
 The Loughborough Cla55ic Account 
 - Available to Investors aged 55 or over 
 
 
 
 Regular Savings Account 
 - Save a regular amount each month 
 
 
 
 Penguin Account 
 - Something for children up to age 16 
 
 
 
 Leicestershire CC Supporter Account 
 - Instant Access account - for Cricket supporters 
 
 
 
 60 Day Account 
 - A Higher return than Instant Access, but withdrawals are restricted 
 
 
 
 Tessa Account 
 - A 5 year tax free savings account - No longer available to new investors 
 
 
 Individual Savings Account 
 - The new tax free account, available from April 5th 1999. 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bank of England Base Rate
 
 
 
 
 Old 
 Rate
 
 
 Current 
 Rate
 
 
 
 
 4.50%
 
 
 4.00%
 
 
 
 
 Updated 
 8 November 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 Go Back 
 
 Commercial Accounts 
 
 
 
 
Changes to Savings rates are notified to all investors with more than £100 in their accounts by letter, within 30 days of the date of the change being made 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 
 all cases interest will be payable net of income tax at 20% 
 or, subject to the required certification, gross. Where the 
 tax deducted exceeds the investors tax liability (if any), a 
 claim may be made to the Inland Revenue for repayment of tax. 
 For Investors whose income falls within the lower basic rate 
 bands, the tax deducted will match their liability on the interest.
 
AER 
 Stands For Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the rate 
 would be if interest was paid and added each year.
 
The Loughborough Building Society is a member of the Building Societies Association and complies with the banking code click here for more information. Written details are available from any branch. 
 
Complaints
 
There 
 may be occasions when you feel you have a complaint in which 
 case our staff will try to resolve the problem through our internal 
 procedures. The Society is also a member of the relevant Ombudsman 
 Scheme to which customers can appeal after internal procedures 
 have been exhausted. Details of the Scheme are available upon 
 request from any office of the Society. We will respond to your 
 initial complaint in two working days and we will finalise any 
 investigation within one month and notify you of our findings.
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 £ 
 amount
 
 
 
 
 
 gross interest rate
 %
 
 
 
 
 term
 years
 
 
	
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
	
	 
 
The Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for life assurance, pensions and investments. 
 
 
	 
	 
	
	 
 
 
