
	
	
	
	Tessa Only ISA
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	Correct as of 10/04/2002 
	
	
	
	
	Notice
	 
	
	
	Instant Access
	 
	
	
	 Tax-Free 
	 
	
	
	Rate Performance 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Tessa Only ISA
	
Investors with a maturing TESSA account can reinvest the capital value in a TESSA Only ISA. Subscriptions are limited to the capital element of your matured TESSA and must be made within six months of the TESSA maturing. Investments in a TESSA Only ISA do not count towards annual ISA subscription limits so you can also invest in a Mini Cash ISA with the Society (subject to you not already having invested in a MAXI ISA or MINI Cash ISA in the same tax year). Our TESSA Only ISA is a CAT standard product. 
	A comparison of the product terms with the CAT standard is illustrated in the table below.
	
	
	
- CAT standard product.
	
- Tax free interest on your savings.
	
- One account per individual aged 18 years or over.
	
- £10 minimum investment.
	
- Cash withdrawals on demand up to daily limit.
	
- No account charges
	
- Rate of interest guaranteed not to fall lower than 2% below bank base rate.
	
- Interest accrues daily and is added to the account on 5 April each year.
	
- Variable interest rate - refer to terms and conditions and current interest rate leaflet for details.
	
- Right to cancel your application within 14 days from making your first payment into the account by serving written notice on the Society (see terms and conditions).
	
- Complete terms and conditions below.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	CAT Standards 
	Marsden TESSA Only ISA 
	
	
	Charges 
	No one off or regular charges of any kind e.g. no charges for withdrawals or for any regular service (such as the use of ATM's), except that charges for replacements (e.g. duplicate statements, lost cards) are permitted. 
	No charges are applicable to this account. 
	
	
	Access 
	Minimum transaction no greater than £10.
	Withdrawals paid within 7 working days or less. 
	£10 minimum investment.
	Cash withdrawals on demand subject to daily limits. 
	
	
	Terms 
	Interest rate to be no lower than 2% below Bank of Engalnd base rate. Upward interest rates to follow base rate changes within one calendar month. No other conditions e.g. no limits on frequency of withdrawals. 
	The interest rate is guaranteed to be no more than 2% below the base rate 
	
	
	
	
	
Rates
	
	
	
	Balance 
	New Rates 19 December 2001 
	Previous Rates 
	Gross Interest 
	
	
	Gross %
	
	
	
	
	
	pa 
	AER %
	
	
	
	
	
	pa 
	NET %
	
	
	
	
	
	 pa 
	Gross %
	
	
	
	
	
	pa 
	AER %
	
	
	
	
	
	pa 
	Rate Decrease 
	
	
	£10 + 
	4.25 
	4.25 
	- 
	4.75 
	4.75 
	0.50 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
