
	
 Scarborough Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 	40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) Limited Edition
	 	
	 	2.20% (Gross per annum), variable rate on savings of £1,000 and above, (AER 2.20%)
	 
 	The 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) is a 40 day variable rate notice account, which is designed with the option of either annual interest or monthly income.
 	
 	Product features
 	
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	MINIMUM INVESTMENT
	 	
	 	The minimum investment required to open a 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue 1) Account is £1,000.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	MATURITY
	 	
	 	The 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) will mature 18 months from the date of opening the account and the balance will automatically transfer to a Scarborough 7 By Post Account. After transfer, the interest rate you will receive will be the prevailing rate for the appropriate balance of the Scarborough 7 By Post Account at that time.
 The Society will notify you in writing prior to your account maturing and automatically transferring to the Scarborough 7 By Post Account.
When your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) matures and transfers to a Scarborough 7 By Post Account, the notice period will reduce to that set out in the Terms and Conditions for Scarborough 7 By Post (currently 7 days). Copies of these are available on this website, or on request.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	14 DAY COOLING OFF PERIOD
	 	
	 	See the Society's General Investment Conditions for full details.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Annual Interest
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Effective Date: 12/01/01
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	From 
	 	To 
	 	Gross % p.a.* 
	 	Net % p.a.* 
	 	AER** 
	 	
	 	
	£1,000 
	£250,000 
	2.20 
	1.76 
	2.20 
	 	
	 	
	 	Monthly Interest
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Effective Date: 12/01/01
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	From 
	 	To 
	 	Gross % p.a.* 
	 	Net % p.a.* 
	 	AER** 
	 	
	 	
	£1,000 
	£250,000 
	2.00 
	1.60 
	2.02 
 
 
	 	INTEREST
	*Interest will be paid or credited after deduction of income tax at the lower rate of 20% or, subject to the required certification, gross.
**AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year. (As every advertisement for a savings product which quotes an interest rate will contain an AER, you will be able to compare more easily what return you can expect from your savings over time.) If you do make a withdrawal from this account without giving 40 days’ notice, you will lose 40 days’ gross interest on the amount of the withdrawal. If you place more than one notice on your account prior to maturity, the interest rate will be reduced by 1.50% gross for a 40 day period. This means that the stated rate of interest will not be achieved. Please note that, if monthly interest is not added to your account, then the AER will not be achieved.
 	
	 	GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
	These terms and conditions (and those contained in the Scarborough Building Society general investment conditions) together with the Scarborough Building Society Memorandum and Rules set out the contractual relationship between Scarborough Building Society ('the Society'), and you, the member.
These conditions contain important information and should be read by you before you open an account with the Society. These conditions are available on this site by clicking on Other Information. 
 	
	 	OPENING AN ACCOUNT
	The minimum investment required to open a 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue 1)is £1,000.
The maximum amount which may be invested in a 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue 1) upon opening and during the life of the account is £250,000. This includes any interest which is credited to the account.
The Society reserves the right to close your 40 Day Access By Post (Issue 1) Account if the balance falls below £1,000.
The initial payment and any subsequent payments to your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue 1) Account will only be accepted in the form of a cheque or transfer from an existing Society investment account.
This is a share account and on opening the account, the account holder(s) will become an investing member(s) of the Society, in accordance with its Rules.
 	
	 	PROOF OF IDENTITY
	Proof of identity and verification of address are required for all applicants. Two original documents, not more than three months old are required for each investor, photocopies are not acceptable. The documents will be returned to you and should be either:
- Utility bill (e.g. Gas/Electricity)
- Bank/Building Society Statement
- Current Council Tax/Notice of Tax Coding
and MUST show the name and address of the investor as it appears on the application form. Further verification checks may be carried out by the Society.
If you already have an account with the Society bearing your current address, identification is not required.
Unless proof of identity is provided, and all appropriate sections of the application form have been completed, including date of birth, we will return your investment to you.
 	
	 	INTEREST
	If the balance of your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) exceeds £1,000, interest may, on your written instructions be paid monthly/annually either to a designated bank or building society account, added to the balance of your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I), or transferred monthly/annually to another Scarborough Building Society account. If the balance of your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) falls below £1,000, or you do not request to have your interest paid monthly, interest will be paid annually on 1 May. The Society reserves the right to change the date on which interest is credited to your account.
Interest which is payable monthly will be credited to your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) or your designated bank or building society account on the first working day of each calendar month.
If the balance of your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) falls below £1,000, the interest rate payable for the period that the balance remains below £1,000 will be the Society's variable base savings rate applicable at the time. Details are available on request.
All rates are variable, and the gross monthly rates do not normally compound to the full annual rates shown.
 	
	 	GIVING NOTICE
	40 days’ written notice must be given to withdraw/transfer funds from or close your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue 1) Account. Notice can be given by telephone or in writing. The Society will confirm the amount which you have placed on notice in writing and the date on which the funds will be withdrawn/transferred from your account, or your account closed. Any request to cancel or reduce the amount on notice must be received by the Society at least two full working days before the confirmed transaction date. This request can be given by telephone or in writing. All notice requests will be treated as withdrawal requests unless otherwise stated.
No notice of withdrawal, transfer or closure is permitted during the first three months from the date of opening the account (excluding the 14 day cooling off period).
If you deposit further investments in your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I), after placing your account on notice to close, withdraw from or transfer your account, then a separate notice instruction must be received by the Society before access to the further investments will be allowed.
Withdrawals/transfers to other Society accounts or closure of your account are permitted without giving 40 days' notice. However, a charge of 40 days' gross interest will be applied to the amount withdrawn/transferred or the balance, if closed. If you place more than one notice on your account prior to maturity, the interest rate will be reduced by 1.50% gross for the 40 day period.
 
 	
	 	WITHDRAWALS AND ADDITIONAL INVESTMENTS
	Your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) cannot be operated through any of the Society's branches.
Access during the first three months from the date of opening the account is by closure and will be subject to a penalty equivalent to 40 days' gross interest on the balance of the account (apart from during the 14 day cooling off period).
Up to one notice of withdrawal/transfer/closure is allowed during the remaining fifteen months of the account without any charge. Where subsequent notice is given either to withdraw/transfer or close your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I), the Society will charge for this facility by reducing the interest rate applicable to your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I) by 1.50% gross for the 40 day notice period, either in relation to the amount which is being withdrawn/transferred or the balance of the account if notice has been given to close your account. Once notice has been given and this amount deducted, should you change your mind and cancel this notice, or let it expire, the amount will not be refunded to your account.
The Society may, from time to time, vary the interest rate reduction charge applicable to your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I), in accordance with its General Investment Conditions. You are advised to request details of the amount of reduction in interest before giving notice on your 40 Day Access Bond By Post (Issue I).
This account does not offer cheque withdrawals payable to a third party. All cheques will be made payable to one or all of the account holders and sent to the last address on record.
Within 24 hours of receipt of instructions, the Society, wherever possible, will process all cheque withdrawals and transfers to other accounts subject to the account terms and conditions.
 	
	 	BANKING CODE
	The Society fully supports the aims of the Banking Code. Please visit this page.
OTHER INFORMATION
Please click on this page for details of the Society's Charitable Assignment Scheme and Money Laundering Prevention requirements.
 	
	 
 
 
 If you are interested in receiving further information about this product click here:
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Written quotations are available on request.
	
	
	Applicants must be aged 18 or over. In all cases the property will be security for the loan.
	Suitable life assurance may be required. All loans and benefits subject to status.
 
 
	The Society is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 Representative only of the Legal & General Marketing Group,	 members of which are
 regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for the purposes of making introductions
 to other representatives for recommending, advising on and selling life assurance and
 investment products bearing Legal & General's name.
	 
	 
 
 
 	
 	
	 	
	 	Find out about our lastest mortgage offer
	 	
	 	
	 	
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
