
Press Releases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > Home > Newsroom > Press Releases 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Meet the Team
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Releases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Savings & Mortgages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Regional Focus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trade News
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Annual General Meeting 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary Financial Statement 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For Immediate Release
 
 13 December 2001 
 
 
 Portman&#146;s 2002 Calendar &#150; A recipe for success! 
 
 
 
CLIC (Cancer and Leukaemia In Childhood) and ten regional charities will 
benefit from Portman&#146;s 2002 Calendar, which features twelve distinct features or 
landmarks from Portman&#146;s operating area along with twelve traditional recipes.
The Society is seeking a donation of at least £1 per calendar from customers 
and hopes to raise over £20,000 for charitable causes. The calendars are 
available from any of Portman&#146;s 113 branches. 
&#147;The Portman calendar has been popular with our customers for many years and 
since 1997, when we began to use it as a fundraising tool, over £100,000 has 
been passed on to good causes&#148;, says Mike Dobson, Portman&#146;s Group Manager, 
Communications.
&#147;Once again, we have produced a calendar of high quality. In addition to 
helping people plan for 2002 and remember important dates we hope that it will 
encourage people to try out at least one or two of those traditional recipes!&#148; 
he added.
Notes to Editors:
CLIC will receive 50% of the donations made for Portman&#146;s Calendar. CLIC is a 
national charity based in Bristol, providing services for all children affected 
by cancer and Leukaemia. CLIC provides for the whole family and concentrates on 
three specific areas &#150; treatment, care and research. 
Regional Charities to benefit from the Calendar Appeal:
 
 
 
 Name of Charity 
 
 
 Brief Details 
 
 
 
 
Acorns Children&#146;s 
 Hospice
 
 
 
 
 Providing support for families with 
 life-limited children throughout the West Midlands region.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Dorset Association for the Disabled
 
 
 
 
 The Dorset Association for the Disabled is 
 based in Weymouth and has 16 local branches spread through Bournemouth, 
 Poole and Dorset. The charity provides support and social amenities for 
 disabled people in the county of Dorset.
 
 
 
 
 
 
North Wilts Holiday 
 Club
 
 
 
 
North Wilts Holiday 
 Club provides play sessions, entertainment and outings for around 60 
 severely and profoundly disabled children from the local area during the 
 summer holidays.
 
 
 
 
 
 
KIDS - South East
 
 
 
 
 Since it was founded eleven years ago, KIDS 
 has provided services to over 2,200 families with children who have 
 disabilities or special needs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Children&#146;s Centre
 
 
 
 
The Children&#146;s Centre 
 is a brand new specialist centre that will provide healthcare for children 
 and teenagers in Worthing and the surrounding area.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Greater London Fund 
 for the Blind
 
 
 
 
The Greater London 
 Fund for the Blind was established in 1921 to unify the collection of funds 
 on behalf of several blind welfare societies in the Greater London area.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Leo House Children&#146;s Hospice Appeal
 
 
 
 
Leo House provides 
 both palliative and respite care while providing support not only for the 
 child and for the whole family.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Big Issue South 
 West
 
 
 
 
 The Big Issue South West was founded in 
 November 1993. The Big Issue Foundation is the charitable arm of The Big 
 Issue Magazine. The foundation offers support to people affected by 
 homelessness, to help them move off the streets and into a home where they 
 can then get a job or start training.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thames Valley & 
 Chiltern Air Ambulance
 
 
 
 
The Air Ambulance service 
 covers an area of 45 miles between Windsor and Northampton. Landing pads for 
 the service are located at: Reading, Slough, Oxford, Basingstoke, Aylesbury 
 and Swindon.
 
 
 
 
 
 
St.Loye's 
 Foundation
 
 
 
 
St.Loye&#146;s is a special 
 college based in Devon that is attended by disabled men and women from 
 across the region.
 
 
 
Traditional Recipes featured 
in the calendar:
Celery and Carrots in Cider
Walnut and Cheddar Paste
Dorset Spicy Apple Cake
Stuffed Breast of Lamb with Bacon
Omelette Arnold Bennett
Maids of Honour
High Dumpsey Dearie Jam
Mackerel with Gooseberry Sauce
Braised Cooked Ham
Whortleberry and Apple Pie
London Particular
Wassail
 
 
For further information please contact:
 
 
mike.dobson@portman.co.uk
 
 
 
 
 
 
Branch Finder
Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 
© 2001 Portman Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
