
Which type of mortgage will suit me best?
Which type of mortgage will
suit me best?
 
There are two types of mortgage you can choose:
 
Repayment Mortgage:
 
 
With this traditional method you repay the Society&#146;s
 loan and the interest on it in equal monthly instalments. Part of each month&#146;s
 repayment covers the interest on the mortgage and the remainder of the repayment reduces
 the capital.
 
 
 
With this type of mortgage we strongly recommend that you
 arrange a mortgage protection policy which is an inexpensive way to ensure that the
 mortgage is repaid in the event of a borrower&#146;s death. If this is not done your
 dependants will have the burden of repaying the mortgage.
 
 
Interest Only Mortgage: 
 
 
The alternative to a repayment mortgage is the interest
 only method. This allows for only the interest on the loan to be paid, and the capital sum
 borrowed does not decrease. Usually you make a long term investment at the same time as
 taking out the mortgage which may produce a capital sum sufficient to repay the mortgage
 loan. There are various different investments which can be linked to this type of mortgage
 which include:
 
 I)
 Endowment
 
 
 
An endowment policy is the most common form of investment
 which may be linked to a mortgage. Over the life of the loan, you pay a monthly premium
 into an endowment assurance policy, and at the end of the mortgage term the proceeds of
 the policy are used to repay some or all of the loan depending on the final value of your
 policy.
 
 
 ii) Pension
 
 
 
If you are self-employed or have a personal pension you
 may wish to elect to link a loan to a pension plan. As tax relief is available on pension
 plan contributions this method may be attractive to those eligible. At the end of the
 mortgage, part of the proceeds of the pension fund is used to repay some or all of the
 loan depending on the final value of your policy. Naturally, this reduces the amount
 available to provide a pension in retirement.
 
 If you choose the interest only method, it is your responsibility to arrange a suitable
 policy or plan. It is also your responsibility to monitor the performance of your
 investment and maintain payment of premiums, to ensure that the proceeds will be adequate
 to repay your mortgage. Should the proceeds be inadequate to repay your mortgage, any
 shortfall will need to be paid from your own resources. You will be able to obtain
 this information from the company with whom you hold the policy or plan, or the advisor
 who arranged your policy or plan for you. You should also consider the fact that
 many investment policies or plans have a low "surrender" value in the early
 years to the extent that the policy value may be less than the premiums paid
 
The type of mortgage you select may be a factor in the
 maximum loan the Society will provide you.
 
 
Which type of interest rate
 charging method will suit me best?
 
In addition to the decision on whether to take a repayment
 or an interest only mortgage, you should also consider the variations on how the interest
 is charged.
 
 Variable Rate Mortgage
 
 
As the name suggests, during the course of the mortgage,
 the interest rate can go up or down. There may be spells of several months when the
 interest rate remains constant, or the rate can change many times over a course of months.
 
 
Discounted Rate Mortgage
 
 
Many mortgage lenders offer a discount off their standard
 variable rate for a period of time. Usually, it is for the first few months or years after
 the mortgage has been taken out. You must remember that when the discount period ends,
 your monthly payments will increase. Some lenders also offer &#145;cashbacks&#146; when a
 specified sum of money is returned to the borrower on completion of the mortgage. 
 
 
Fixed Rate Mortgage
 
 
From time to time, lenders offer a mortgage where the
 interest rate remains fixed, say, for one to five years, and sometimes longer. When the
 fixed rate term has expired, the interest rate will either change to the current variable
 rate or to a new fixed rate. As with discounted rate mortgages, these type of loans may
 attract high charges for early redemption. The main attraction of a fixed rate mortgage is
 that it provides you with certainty of payments for a period. This makes it ideal for
 budgeting purposes and provides protection against rising interest rates.
 
 
 
 Cap-And-Collar Mortgage
 
 
Cap-and-Collar interest means that the maximum and minimum
 rates of interest which may be charged on the loan for a given term are fixed.
 
Next Page
 Return to Homebuyer's Guide menu
 
