
	
	
	The West Bromwich Building Society - Pass It On
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	All products and services
	Home
	Mortgages
	Savings
	Life Insurance
	
	Travel Money
	Money Transfer
	Contact Us
	Your Society
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
At the West Brom, we know that everyone has different needs, and that your individual circumstances change over time. That's why we've introduced flexible mortgages that allow you
to manage your mortgage to reflect changes in your lifestyle. 
	
With a West Brom FlexiMortgage, you can make significant savings from the daily interest calculation.
	
And, you also have the flexibility to: 
	
	
	
- increase your monthly repayments or make lump sum repayments whenever you like, without charge, to pay off your mortgage early and save thousands of pounds,
	
- reduce your monthly repayments or take a payment holiday*
	
- apply for a further loan to help you with your changing circumstances.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
You also benefit from interest being calculated daily. By moving to daily interest calculation, you can save over £2,913.91 on a typical £60,000 repayment mortgage* over a 25 year term.
	
See Notes for more detailed explanation.
	
Try out our online FlexiMortgage Calculator to find out the ways you can benefit from a FlexiMortgage.
	
	
	
	
Just look at the benefits:
	
	
- Available over the internet using our quick and easy online application form
	
- Available on loans from £25,001 to £500,000
	
- You can borrow up to 95% of the value of your house
	
- 1.75% Discount for the first 6 months, then 0.5% discount for 54 months 	
- FREE Higher Advance Fee, NO Arrangement fee and FREE Valuation fee (max £250)
	
- Free loan protection insurance for 6 months
	
- £250 Cashback and NO compulsory products
	
- We can lend up to 3.5x main income PLUS 1x secondary income or 2.75x joint income
	
	
	
	
	
Click here to view the TYPICAL EXAMPLE
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
Mortgage Calculator & Online Application
	
This calculator will help you work out your repayments. You can also obtain a personal illustration.
	Amount you would like to borrow?:
	(You may choose to enter an amount in either Repayment, Interest Only, or split the amount between both) 	
	Repayment 	 	
	Interest only 	 	
	 	
	
we will lend between £25,001 and £500,000 and up to 95% of the value of the house.
	
	 	
	Repayment period (years)?: 	
	 	
	
minimum 5 years, maximum 40.	 	
	 	 	
	
	
Not the Right Mortgage for you ?
	
If the FlexiMortgage is not suitable for your needs we also offer a full range of mortgages available through our branches or over the phone. 
	
	
	Whichever way you choose, we promise to give you the best possible service and the reassurance of knowing that we comply fully with the Mortgage Code. This is a voluntary code of practice for lenders and mortgage advisors in their relations with personal customers. Under the code, there are three levels of service. For more information, visit the website of the Council of Mortgage Lenders
	
	
	
	
	
	
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
For help and professional advice,
	 fill in the details below
	and we'll call you back. 
	
	
	
Enter your full phone number: 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Enter your name and extension number (if applicable): 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
Call me:
	
	Now
	In 5 Minutes
	In 10 Minutes
	In 15 Minutes
	In 30 Minutes
	In 1 Hour
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Please note: Lines are open 8.30am -7pm Monday to Friday, 9am - 12noon Saturday. We can only service calls from the UK.
Remember, if you only have one phone line and are using it to connect to the Net, you will need to hang up so we can ring you. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
Click here to view the TYPICAL EXAMPLE
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for Life Assurance, Pensions and Investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of the Society and Norwich Union. These pages are only for the use of those persons who are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK. The Society accepts no responsibility for the content held on other websites to which you may be directed. The society is a member of the Financial Services Ombudsman and is a signatory to the Banking Code and the Mortgage Code. To obtain copies of these codes, please click on the relevant link. Copies are also available in our branches.
	
Worried about security? Then view our security and privacy policy. 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	© West Bromwich Building Society 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
