
Young Peoples "Own" Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Young Peoples Own 
 Shares
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under 
 18's
 
 
 
 
 
Young 
 People's Own Shares
 
 Minimum 
 balance £1 
 
 
 Instant 
 access and no penalty 
 
 
 Operate 
 the account yourself when 7 years old 
 
 
 High 
 rate of interest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Available 
 only within our local area unless stated
 
 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 OF SHARE ACCOUNTS - OPEN ISSUES 
 
YOUNG PEOPLES "OWN" 
 SHARE
 
1. Accounts may be 
 opened for anyone up to the age of 18. Young People aged 7 and over may 
 open and operate their own account. Accounts for Young People under the 
 age of 7 may be opened by adults.
 
2. The minimum investment 
 shall be £1.
 
3. On reaching the 
 age of 18 the balance of the account must be withdrawn or transferred 
 to another type of account.
 
4. Withdrawals may 
 be made on demand in accordance with the Rules of the Society and subject 
 to the normal branch limits.
 
5. Interest will be 
 credited to accounts half-yearly on 31st May and 30th November.
 
6. The rate of interest 
 on these shares may vary from time to time. The Society will only reduce 
 the rate of interest for one or more of the following reasons:
 
 (i) because the Society 
 needs to reduce costs, to enable it to reduce interest rates payable to 
 it by its current and new borrowers or otherwise to maintain and develop 
 the Society's lending business;
 
 (ii) because the Society's administrative costs and charges have increased 
 or the Society reasonably believes they are likely to do so in the near 
 future;
 
 (iii) because the 
 cost to the Society of borrowing funds has increased or the Society reasonably 
 believes it is likely to do so in the near future;
 
(iv) because the Society 
 needs to reduce a rate or rates of interest payable by it in order to 
 achieve and maintain prudent levels of liquidity, profitability and/or 
 financial strength having regard to current economic circumstances and 
 the Society's expectations of future economic trends.
 
 Any variation will 
 be publicised in the Society's offices, and will be advertised in selected 
 newspapers as advised in the leaflet "Guide to Savings". 
 
 
7. The terms and conditions 
 of these shares may be varied from time to time by giving not less than 
 30 days prior written notice to the investor.
 
 
b_line
 
 
A special 
 account for young people in Derbyshire
 
We have designed the 
 b_line account specifically for all young people in Derbyshire who hold 
 the County Council&#146;s b_line card.
 
You can open an account 
 with as little as £1 by calling in at our office and completing an application 
 form. You will need to bring your b_line card with you and some other 
 form of identification such as your bus pass or birth certificate. You 
 can invest up to £5,000 with us.
 
You can withdraw at 
 any time from your account without any penalty; subject to our normal 
 branch limits. Details can be found in our Guide to Savings leaflet.
 
We 
 will add interest to your account each year on 31 May. The rate of interest 
 may vary from time to time. The rate of interest will be linked to Bank 
 of England base rate and will not be less than 2% below that rate (except 
 when the Bank of England base rate changes, in which case we will amend 
 the rate within one calendar month of that change).
 
Until 
 31 December 2001, we promise that the rate will not be lower than the 
 Bank of England base rate.
 
Please 
 notify us immediately if you change your address.
 
* 
 The b_line account is operated by Clay Cross Building Society. The offer 
 to b_line cardholders by the Society should not be taken as Derbyshire 
 County Council either recommending or endorsing the product.
 
TERMS 
 AND CONDITIONS
 
 
- Accounts may be 
 opened by anyone holding a valid b_line Derbyshire Youth Card.
 
- The minimum investment 
 is £1 and the maximum is £5,000.
 
- Upon reaching the 
 age of 18, the balance of the account must be withdrawn or transferred 
 to another type of account.
 
- Withdrawals may 
 be made on demand in accordance with the Rules of the Society, subject 
 to the normal branch limits.
 
- The rate of interest 
 will be linked to Bank of England base rate and will not be less than 
 2% below that rate (except when the Bank of England base rate changes, 
 in which case we will amend the rate within one calendar month of that 
 change).
 
- Interest will be 
 credited to accounts annually on 31 May.
 
- The terms and conditions 
 of these shares may be varied from time to time by giving not less than 
 30 days prior written notice to the investor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Clay 
 Cross Building Society
 FREEPOST, Clay Cross, Chesterfield, Derbyshire S45 9BR
 (No Stamp Required)
 Freephone: 0800 834497 Fax: 01246 250397 
 
 
 
 
 
 
