
Company Profile Home Page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Background 
 Directors 
 Market
 Overview 
 Mortgage
 Process 
 Strategy 
 
 
 
Directors
 
 
The
 current Directors of the Company are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 Peter
 Birch C.B.E. Non-Executive Chairman. Mr Birch was Chief
 Executive at Abbey National plc from 1984-1998. He held various
 positions with Gillette Industries Ltd from 1965 to 1984, including
 Managing Director of Gillette UK Ltd and Group General Manager,
 Africa, Middle East and Eastern Europe. He is Chairman of the Legal
 Services Commission and Chairman of Land Securities plc. He is the
 senior non-executive director of the merged Trinity Mirror plc
 (having been Chairman of Trinity plc since June 1998), a
 non-executive director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited,
 Travelex plc and Dah Sing Financial Services and a Pension Fund
 Trustee of Cap Gemini Ernst & Young.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 John
 Maltby. Chief Executive. Mr Maltby has recently joined the
 Company from Abbey National plc, where he was Managing Director of
 First National Tricity Finance Ltd and Executive Director of the
 First National Group Ltd. He previously held senior executive roles
 in the NatWest Group and Barclays Bank plc and enjoyed a successful
 consultancy career with Andersen Consulting and Price Waterhouse
 working with blue chip clients in financial services and other
 sectors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Simon
 Kingdon. Finance Director. Mr Kingdon, who joined the Company in
 1997, has been directly involved in the mortgage industry since
 1987. Most recently he was Finance Director of West Bromwich
 Building Society. Previously he worked as Director of Group Finance
 for National Home Loans, before transferring to The National
 Mortgage Bank plc as Managing Director and Finance Director. Mr
 Kingdon is a qualified Chartered Accountant, having spent 12 years
 working in the accountancy profession, latterly with KPMG.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alfred
 Eckert III. Non-Executive Director. Mr Eckert has served as
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GSC Partners since its
 inception in 1994. He was previously with Goldman Sachs & Co.
 where he was co-head of the Merchant Bank, responsible for the Broad
 Street Investment Fund I, L.P., and the Water Street Corporate
 Recovery Fund I, L.P. During his 18-year career at Goldman Sachs, Mr
 Eckert founded and ran the Leveraged Buyout Department, co-headed
 the Corporate Finance Department, chaired the Commitments and Credit
 Committees, co-chaired the Investment Committee and co-founded the
 South Street Funds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martin
 A. Finegold. Non-Executive Director. Mr Finegold is currently
 Chairman and Chief Executive of the Company&#146;s former subsidiary,
 IFonline Group plc. He has extensive experience and knowledge of the
 mortgage industry acquired at various companies including PFA
 Financial Services (1979 to 1982), Farmers Savings Bank (1982 to
 1985), Goldman Sachs & Co. (1986 to 1994), where he was
 responsible for trading, marketing and syndication of a range of
 mortgage and asset backed securities in the United States, Europe
 and Asia; and most recently with the Company as Chairman and Chief
 Executive. He has been with the Company since founding the business
 in November 1994.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stanley
 Fink. Non-Executive Director. Mr Fink has extensive experience
 in the financial services industry. He originally qualified as a
 chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen where he worked until
 1982. From 1983 to 1986 he was a Vice-President at Citibank
 responsible for a leveraged buyout team. Mr Fink has worked for Man
 Group plc from 1987 until the present, initially as director with
 responsibility for mergers and acquisitions, then as Group Finance
 Director from 1994 to 1996. Mr Fink ran their fund management
 division from 1996 to 2000. In March 2000, he was appointed CEO of
 Man Group plc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gareth Jones. Non-executive Director. Mr D G Jones joined the Board on 1 January 2002. Most recently he was Executive Director and Managing Director of Wholesale Banking for Abbey National plc. He joined Abbey National in 1989 and built its wholesale banking operations into a substantial and successful business. His past experience includes the roles of Finance Director, First Mortgage Securities Limited and Group Treasurer, Redland plc. He is a non-executive director of Somerfield plc. Other previous non-executive roles have included director of Marley plc and Chairman of their Audit Committee, and Deputy Chairman of Imperial Railways. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, a member of the Accountancy Review Board, a past Chairman and a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers, and a member of the Economic Social Research Council (Cambridge).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2002 Kensington Group plc
 
 
