
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage Product Range 
 Terms and Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Important notes 
 
 
With some mortgages, an
 application fee is applicable. Where part, or all, of this fee is shown
 overleaf as ‘payable with the application’ this amount is
 non-refundable, even if the mortgage does not complete. The remainder is
 payable on completion. If you decide to move home during the fixed,
 capped or discounted rate period, you can have your new mortgage charged
 at the same rate of interest for the remainder of the fixed, capped or
 discounted rate period. However, if you need to borrow more money when
 you move, you may need to agree new terms for the additional amount
 only. This is subject to your income and financial commitments at that
 time and a valuation of the new property.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other
 Notes 
 Self
 Build Schemes/Shared Payments 
 
 
 Shared
 Ownership 
 Flexible
 Mortgage 
 
 
 Buy
 to Let and Let to Buy 
 Typical
 Examples 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other notes
 
 
 • All products are portable, therefore any loan which is
immediately replaced by a new mortgage with the
Society of at least equivalent value to the loan
outstanding at the time of repayment and is
maintained at the product rate of interest for the
remainder of the product term, can have any
repayment fee payable credited to the new account. 
 
 
• If you are entitled to a cashback, a cheque will be
sent to your solicitor on completion of your mortgage
or as otherwise stated in the product terms. You
should note that the Inland Revenue has not formally
ruled on the taxation implications of cashbacks. You
should, therefore, take advice from your tax advisor
regarding any potential liability. 
 
 
• All monthly re-payments must be made by direct debit. 
 
 
• The Society may, at its discretion, transfer the
mortgage to its Standard Variable Rate of interest if
the account falls into arrears during a fixed, capped
or discounted rate period. 
 
 
• Discounted rates of interest are calculated from the
Society’s Standard Variable Rate of interest. 
 
 
• At the end of a fixed, capped or discounted rate
period, the Society’s Standard Variable Rate of
interest, applicable at that time will be charged. Note
that on Buy to Let or Let to Buy Mortgages, after the
expiry of any fixed rate period the rate will revert to
the Standard Variable Rate plus 0.30%. 
 
 
• Unless otherwise stated, the interest rates shown on the "Mortgage
Rates and Details at a glance" page include a discount for taking out the Society’s
Homecover, Buildings & Contents Insurance. 0.24%
will be added to the rate of interest charged for any
period before the date or term shown overleaf under
‘Insurance Period’, during which you do not have the
Society’s Homecover insurance in place. Different
terms apply to the Buy to Let or Let to Buy
Mortgages, and are shown separately. 
 
 
• An early repayment charge will be payable if the
mortgage is repaid within the period shown overleaf
under ‘Repayment Until’. The amount of the charge is
also shown overleaf. If however, the loan is
immediately replaced by a new mortgage with the
Society of at least equivalent value to the loan
outstanding at the time of repayment, and this is
maintained at the product rate of interest for the
remainder of the product term, then this charge will
be recredited to the new account. 
 
 
• If a partial repayment of your loan is made, the early
repayment charge will be calculated only on the
amount repaid. If an early repayment charge will not
be charged, the word ‘None’ will be shown overleaf
under the heading ‘Early Repayment Charge’. 
 
 
• If you are in breach of the mortgage conditions during
the ‘Repayment Until’ period, shown on the "Mortgage Rates and Details
at a glance" page, we are
entitled to charge a fee equivalent to the value for the
applicable early repayment charge. 
 
 
• The Higher Lending Fee will always be calculated
from 75%. 
 
 
• For individual application fees see overleaf. Please
note that application fees for loans of £500,000 are
by referral.
 
 
 
 
 
Shared Ownership 
 
 
Shared Ownership is for loans on properties purchased
through a registered Housing Association. Initial share
of 25% must be purchased by the borrower and the
maximum loan will be 100% of the borrowers share, up
to a maximum 75% LTV. This product is not available in
Scotland. 
 
 
The lease must provide: 
 
 
• For the borrower to acquire further interest in the
property up to 100% of the market value. 
 
 
• An adequate mortgage protection clause, protecting
the Society from any potential losses. 
 
 
• A clause allowing the Society to exercise the right to
purchase 100% of the property and sign the leases.
 
 Buy to Let and Let to Buy
 
 Minimum valuation £50,000, except for London
postcodes where it is £85,000 or the South East where
it is £70,000. 
 
Maximum loan - for investment purposes 80% LTV
Rental income: 
 
• Must equate to 130% of mortgage payments
calculated on an interest only basis. 
 
• Enquiries will be made of the applicants to assess
overall suitability including proof of income and
mortgage payments. 
 
• Single tenancy only. 
 
• Tenancy must be assured shorthold tenancy which
does not predate the mortgage. 
 
• Private individuals only. 
 
• Maximum of 3 properties. 
 
• Buy to let remortgages (no capital raising element) will
be considered. 
 
• A Let to Buy where the owner wishes to let existing
property and purchase a new property may be
considered. 
 
• A Let to Buy can be considered for a 95% mortgage
on a new property.
 
 
 Self Build Schemes/Stage Payments 
 
Applicants for self build and stage payments will be
considered. 
 
• Maximum ultimate LTV does not exceed 90%. 
 
• Stage payments to be released in up to 5 stages,
agreed by a suitably qualified surveyor/valuer (a fee
will be charged for each stage re-inspection). 
 
• Finance to purchase land is acceptable as first stage,
provided detailed planning permission is obtained
and full schedule of cost is available. 
 
• Up to 85% LTV allowed at each stage.
 
 
 Flexible Mortgage 
 
• Payment holidays can be taken after the first
6 mortgage repayments. 
 
• Underpayments, borrow-back facility and payment holidays available from
overpayments. 
 
• A maximum of 6 monthly repayments can be taken
as holidays each calendar year.
 
 
 Typical Examples 
 
Flexible Mortgage -
 2.50% discount for the first 6 months
 
The APR of 6.0% is
 calculated on the basis of a £52,250 interest only mortgage
 on a property value at £55,000 repaid over 25 years. 6 monthly
 payments of £141.60 assuming a rate of 3.25%, followed by 294
 monthly payments of £250.40 assuming the rate reverts to the current
 Leeds & Holbeck Standard Variable Rate of 5.75%. Total amount
 payable of £128,201.70 calculated to include £75,951.70 total in
 interest payable, £164.50 legal fees, £195 valuation fee, £985 higher
 lending fee, £30 telegraphic transfer fee,
 £60 administration fee and £50
 deeds release fee. Assumes a completion date of 1 July 2002.
 
First Time Buyer -
 1.50% discount for 2 years
 
The APR of 5.8% is
 calculated on the basis of a £52,250 interest only mortgage
 on a property value at £55,000 repaid over 25 years. 24 monthly
 payments of £185.10 assuming a rate of 4.25%, followed by 276
 monthly payments of £250.40 assuming the rate reverts to the current
 Leeds & Holbeck Standard Variable Rate of 5.75%. Total amount
 payable of £126,703.30 calculated to include £74,453.30 total in
 interest payable, £164.50 legal fees, £30 telegraphic transfer fee,
 £60 administration fee and £50
 deeds release fee. Assumes a completion date
 of 1 July 2002.
 
 
 Note about free Mortgage Payment
Protection 
 
 
With the Society’s Mortgage Payment Protection
scheme, you will be covered for Accident, Sickness
and Unemployment, subject to a 30 day exclusion
period. The level of benefit will be equal to the value of
your monthly payment at the product rate of interest,
inclusive of any household insurance arranged by the
Society. Please note, the cover is only available to
customers who are eligible to cover under the normal
criteria. Please refer to our Mortgage Payment
Protection leaflet for full details.
 
 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
 
Full written details and quotations are available on
request. The mortgage must be secured by a first
charge on the property. Buildings insurance may be
required. All loans are subject to a satisfactory appraisal
of status, financial standing and valuation. Loans are only
available to persons aged 18* years or over. In certain
instances, a one off Higher Lending Fee may be payable.
Any endowment premium will be paid directly to the life
assurance company. Applications are subject to normal
lending criteria. For loans in excess of 75% of the
purchase price or valuation of the property (whichever
is lower) a Higher Lending Fee becomes payable.
 
Leeds & Holbeck
 Building Society is a member of the General Insurance Standards Council
 (GISC) and abides by the Private Customer Code for all general insurance
 products sold. The GISC regulates sales, advisory and service standards
 to make sure that general insurance customers are treated fairly.
 
 Leeds & Holbeck Building Society introduces only to the
Norwich Union Marketing Group either directly, or, via
Leeds & Holbeck Financial Services Ltd which
represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group,
members of which are regulated by the Personal
Investment Authority and/or IMRO for life assurance,
pensions and investments. Any financial advice given
will relate only to the products of Norwich Union
Marketing Group and Leeds & Holbeck Building Society.
 
*100% MORTGAGES ARE ONLY
 AVAILABLE TO PERSONS AGED 21 AND OVER.
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP
UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER
LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
