
General Insurance
 
 
 
 
homebuyers 
 | Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance
 
Mortgage Payment 
 Protection Insurance
 
 Features
 
 Pays your mortgage for 12 months if you are absent from work as a result 
 of redundancy or illness (see Cover).
 
 On joint mortgages, the monthly benefit can be apportioned. This means 
 that you can select cover in relation to the proportion of salary each 
 of you earn e.g. 60/40, 50/50, 70/30.
 
 The benefit level or apportionment of monthly benefit can be changed 
 on request, ensuring consistent cover.
 
 Support from the Society in the event of having to make a claim.
 
 If you take out the policy with Newbury Building Society the first three 
 months' premiums are FREE!
 
 Cover
 
 After 60 days away from work due to an accident, or illness or because 
 you were made unemployed through no fault of your own, the insurers 
 will pay Newbury Building Society an amount equal to 1/30th of the monthly 
 benefit you select, for each following day of your absence thereafter, 
 up to a maximum of 12 monthly benefits.
 
 To be eligible for our Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance, at the 
 start date of cover you must be:
 
  Aged between 18 and 64 years; and
  Resident within the United Kingdom, Channel Islands or Isle of Man; 
 and
  Working for at least 16 hours per week within the United Kingdom, 
 Channel Islands or Isle of Man and have been continuously for the previous 
 6 months; and
  Not already absent from work because of illness or injury; and
  Not aware of any impending unemployment.
 
 There are some exclusions to cover but we have tried to keep them to 
 a minimum. These are claims resulting from:
 
  War, riot or radiation;
  Alcohol or drug abuse;
  Normal pregnancy;
  Self-inflicted injuries;
  Pre-existing medical conditions;
  Mental or nervous disorders (unless under the care of a specialist);
  Seasonal unemployment, misconduct or voluntary employment;
  Any period where you are receiving payment in lieu of notice;
  Backache (unless x-ray evidence of abnormality);
  Impending unemployment at the policy start date; and
  Unemployment occurring within the first 60 days of cover.
 
 When Cover and Benefit Ends
 
 Your insurance cover and any benefit being paid will end automatically 
 upon the earliest of these events:
 
  Your 65th birthday.
  When you retire from work completely.
  Non-payment of the monthly premium.
  The date you no longer have a mortgage to protect.
 
 Unemployment 
 Cover
 
 The cover you receive will depend on the type of employment contract 
 you have at the time of claim.
 
 Permanent employees - If you have a permanent, open-ended contract, 
 you are covered for compulsory redundancy.
 
 Fixed term contract workers - If you have a renewable fixed term 
 contract, you are covered if:
 
  Your employer cancels the contract early or if they do not renew it 
 again, provided it was an annual contract and had already been renewed 
 at least once; or
  You had worked for the same employer for at least 24 months; or you 
 previously worked for the same employer under a permanent contract.
 
 If your contract and work record are any other than described above, 
 you are covered only if your employer cancels your contract early (not 
 if they do not renew it). Please note that benefit will not be paid 
 after the date the contract would have normally expired.
 
 Self-employed workers - You are covered if you cease trading 
 due to insolvency and have declared this to the Inland Revenue.
 
 Additional Options
 
 You have the option to increase your monthly benefit to allow for other 
 outgoings related to your mortgage e.g. buildings and contents insurance, 
 life assurance or even your mortgage payment protection insurance premium. 
 Please note that increasing your monthly benefit may affect your entitlement 
 to certain State benefits.
 
 Pricing
 
 We have negotiated a special rate for you. The monthly premium is 4.22 
 for each 100 of monthly benefit required. Insurance Premium Tax (set 
 by the Government) needs to be added. For example, if your mortgage 
 payment is 450 per month, then your monthly Mortgage Payment Protection 
 Insurance premium is 4.5 x 4.22 = 18.99 - a small price to pay for 
 peace of mind. In addition, the first three months' premiums are free 
 of charge!
 
 Important Information
 
 The Insurer
 
 The policy is administered and underwritten by a Consortium of Insurers 
 comprising certain Underwriters at Lloyd's of London, Scor UK Company 
 and Zurich Insurance Company.
 
 Terms & Conditions
 
 This website page is intended to give you the main features of our Mortgage 
 Payment Protection Insurance policy. Full terms and conditions are explained 
 in the Evidence of Cover document, which is available on request and 
 will be given to you on acceptance of your application by the insurer. 
 Unless otherwise specifically agreed, this insurance shall be governed 
 by and construed in accordance with the Law of England.
 
 Fraudulent Claims
 
 To prevent fraudulent claims, insurers share information with each other. 
 In the event of a claim, the details you give on your insurance application 
 may be shared, along with any information relating to the claim.
 
 Scheme Amendments or Cancellation
 
 Should it be necessary for the Insurers to amend or cancel this Insurance 
 scheme you will be given at least 30 days prior written notification, 
 sent to your last known address. In the event of cancellation your cover 
 will cease automatically on the date that the Scheme is cancelled and 
 no further premium will be due from you. However, you will continue 
 to receive benefits due in respect of a period of disability or unemployment 
 if your loss date was prior to the date the scheme was cancelled.
 
 Direct Debit Guarantee
 
 This guarantee is offered by all banks and building societies that take 
 part in the direct debit scheme. The efficiency and security of the 
 scheme is monitored and protected by your own bank or building society. 
 The amounts are variable and may be debited on various dates. If the 
 premium to be paid changes, other than due to a change in the Insurance 
 Premium Tax (see below), you will be told of this in advance by at least 
 14 days.
 
 No further notice will be given in respect of any change in the amount 
 to be deducted arising solely from an alteration in the rate of Insurance 
 Premium Tax. Any alteration in the rate of Insurance Premium Tax will 
 be announced publicly.
 
 If an error is made by Cassidy Davis Insurance Services Ltd or your 
 bank or building society, you are guaranteed a full and immediate refund 
 from your branch of the amount paid. You can cancel a direct debit at 
 any time by writing to your bank or building society. Please also send 
 a copy of your letter to the Scheme Administrators.
 
 If you have a problem
 
 It is always the intention to provide you with a first class service. 
 However, if you have cause for complaint the procedure described here 
 should be followed and the Scheme Administrators will be pleased to 
 give you any additional information or advice that you may need. Procedure:
 
 1. in the first instance you should address your complaint to the Managing 
 Director of the Scheme Administrators.
 2. Should you not be satisfied with the response you may then ask the 
 Complaints and Advisory Department at Lloyd's of London to review your 
 case.
 3. If you still remain dissatisfied you may then contact the Insurance 
 Ombudsman. The Scheme Administrators will provide the full addresses 
 of these organisations and the referral of your complaint to them will 
 not affect your rights in law.
 
 General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) Code
 
 Newbury Building Society is an independent intermediary member of the 
 General Insurance Standards Council (GISC), selling Mortgage Payment 
 Protection Insurance on behalf of the insurers.
 
 The GISC is an independent organisation set up to regulate the sales, 
 advisory and service standards of members (insurers), intermediaries 
 (including brokers), agents and anyone acting for them. Its main purpose 
 is to make sure that general insurance customers are treated fairly.
 
 The GISC Code sets out minimum standards of good practice, which all 
 GISC members must follow when they deal with private customers. We are 
 committed to providing you with standards exceeding those laid out in 
 the GISC Code and welcome you to tell us if we are not meeting your 
 expectations.
 
 A copy of the GISC Code is available on request. It can also be obtained 
 from the GISC website - www.gisc.co.uk.
 
 Data Protection
 
 The Insurers will collect certain information about you in the course 
 of considering your application and, if they issue a certificate of 
 insurance, in conducting their relationship with you. This information 
 will be processed for the purpose of underwriting your insurance cover, 
 managing any insurance issued, administering claims and fraud prevention. 
 They may pass your information to a qualified medical practioner, other 
 insurers, reinsurers and loss adjusters for these purposes. This may 
 involve the transfer of your information to countries which do not have 
 data protection laws.
 
 You may have a right of access to, and correction of, information that 
 is held about you. Please contact the Insurer's Compliance Officer to 
 exercise either of these rights.
 
 Some of the information may be classified as 'sensitive' - that is information 
 about physical and mental health and employment records. Data protection 
 laws impose specific conditions in relation to sensitive information, 
 including in some circumstances the need to obtain your explicit consent 
 before the insurers process the information. By signing your application, 
 you consent to the processing and transfer of information described 
 in this notice. Without this consent the Insurers would not be able 
 to consider your application. 
 
 
 General Insurance
 
 Combined Block Buildings and Contents
 
 Buildings Only
 
 Block and Contents Only
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Head 
 Office address:
 17 Bartholomew Street,
 Newbury, Berks
 RG14 5LY
 tel: 01635 555700
 fax: 01635 555799
 e-mail: mail@newbury.co.uk
 
 new enquiries hotline: 01635 555700 
 
 
Newbury 
 Building Society is a participant of the Financial 
 Ombudsman Service. We also comply with the Mortgage, 
 Banking 
 and GISC Codes, 
 copies of which are available on request. You have the right under the 
 Data Protection Act 1998 to know what personal data is held about you 
 by the Society and to have any inaccuracies corrected. Please write 
 to Head Office if you do not want to receive marketing material. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
