
	
	
	
	Stroud and Swindon Building Society - Savings > Branch Based Savings > Guide to Savings
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Savings Branch Based Savings Guide to Savings
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages 
 
 Savings 
 
Direct Easy Access 
Direct 30 
Direct ISA 
Branch Based Savings 
Savings Accounts 
Current Interest Rates 
Guide to Savings 
Branch Finder 
Non Marketed A/c's 
SSBS Direct Interest Rates 
Direct Premium Saver 
Fixed Rate Bond - Issue 6 
 Insurance 
 
 Planning your Finances 
 
 Intermediary Centre 
 
 About Us 
 
 Other Services 
 
Term Assurance 
 
Personal Loans 
 
Annual Multi-Trip Travel 
 
Royal Int. Air Tattoo 
 
Loyalty Discount 
 
Site Map 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Branch 
Guide to Savings
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Opening & Operating a branch account
 	 CHOOSING THE RIGHT ACCOUNT
We have a range of savings plans to meet your needs. These include instant access, notice and fixed rate accounts.
HOW TO OPEN A STROUD & SWINDON SAVINGS ACCOUNT
Opening an account is easy. Simply complete the appropriate application form, which forms part of each account leaflet, and either take it or send it to your local branch with cash or cheque for the amount you wish to save. The minimum amount you need to open an account ranges from £5 to £2,000, depending on the type of account. Details are set out in the relevant product leaflets.
We are required by law to verify the identity and address of anyone opening an account. You need to give us official forms of identification clearly linking your name with your current address. 
A) One of the following to provide personal identity 
(photocopied document required)
• Current U.K. Drivers Licence
• Current U.K. Passport
• Benefit or Pension Book
B) ONE of the following to provide confirmation of your address (if applying within the branch - or TWO of the following if applying by post)
(original documents required)
• Recent Council Tax Bill
• Recent Mortgage Statement
• Recent Bank Statement
• Recent Utility Bill
If you are opening a joint account we must have identification for both parties.
We do not need proof of identity if you already have a mortgage or investment account with Stroud & Swindon, but when filling in the application form please make sure you quote your account number.
We always try to make the identification process as straightforward as possible. If you have any questions about which documents you should supply to open an account, please contact us.
NOTES
• RECENT means no more than six months old
• If you are opening a joint account, BOTH account holders will need to supply the required identification documents.
• Please send only photocopies for section ‘A’
 Please send only originals for section ‘B’
 The original documents will be returned to you.
• These lists are not exhaustive and if you require further assistance, please call our Customer Service Helpline on 08457 045 012 for further information
PLEASE NOTE that we are unable to open an account unless valid documentation is provided.
COOLING OFF PERIOD
If you are not happy about your choice of savings or investment account within 14 days of opening it, we will help you switch accounts or pay back your money with interest. This does not apply to fixed rate accounts. We will ignore any notice period and any additional charges although cheque receipts must be cleared before the monies can be refunded. This will take eight working days.
CLOSED ACCOUNTS
Not all our accounts are available for further investment. These are called Closed Accounts; in most, but not all instances, these are accounts marketed by those Societies with whom we have merged since 1984. Details of these accounts and the current interest rates paid are on display in each of our branches, circulated to all savers annually and are available in a leaflet (INV39). We recommend that you check from time to time; you may find that another of our savings accounts is more suitable for you.
OPERATING YOUR ACCOUNT
Making investments and withdrawals
With most accounts, you may make additional investments by cash, cheque or standing order whenever you choose.
Each account has rules that apply to withdrawing funds. Some accounts require you to give us notice that you want to withdraw money. For example, a 40 Day notice account requires you to give us 40 days’ written notice; you may withdraw funds without notice but doing so means that you lose 40 days’ gross interest on the amount you withdraw.
With instant access accounts, up to £500 in cash can normally be withdrawn on demand from any branch office. Withdrawals of amounts over £500 are paid by cheque.
Passbooks and statements
When you open an account, you will be issued with a passbook. This is your record of account transactions. Please bring it with you whenever you make a deposit or withdrawal.
If your passbook is lost or stolen, let us know as soon as possible by contacting your local branch or by phoning our Customer helpline on 08457 045 012.
Statements are issued once a year, giving details of interest paid on your account.
Coins
We are unable to accept coins totalling more than £25 in value. For amounts under £25, coins can be accepted if sorted and bagged. Your branch will be happy to provide you with coin bags. Please note, we do not accept coins in our Branch Instant Account.
Depositors
A few of our savings accounts are classified as Deposit accounts. A Depositor merely saves money with us and has no membership rights and consequently no say in the running of the Society. We tell you when you open your account if you have a Deposit account. If you are in any doubt please enquire. Even though a Depositor is not a member of the Society, deposit account savings are included in the Investor Protection Scheme.
Death
We appreciate that this is a distressing time, but if an account holder dies, we should be notified as soon as possible. In the case of a single account holder, his or her personal representatives may close the account (after providing evidence of their authority to do so) by withdrawing all the money, together with any interest earned. If the account is held jointly, we will close it and automatically transfer the balance into the name of the surviving account holder(s).
If the sum due to the estate is less than £5,000 we may pay the money to the person entitled without a formal grant of probate or letters of administration.
Solving problems
Our aim is to provide the highest standards of service to all our customers. However, things do go wrong. When this happens, we want to put matters right as quickly as possible. The following procedure is designed to deal with any difficulties promptly and efficiently. 
If you do have a complaint, you should discuss it with your local branch or relevant Head Office department. If the problem is not resolved to your satisfaction, you should then write to the Customer Services Manager at our Head Office. If you are still not satisfied, you should then send full details to the Chief Executive at our Head Office.
If the matter has still not been resolved, you may write to the Building Societies Ombudsman, who will investigate the problem impartially. The Ombudsman’s address is: The Building Societies Ombudsman, South Quay Plaza, 183 Marsh Wall, London E14 9SR.
Please note that the Ombudsman will only deal with your complaint if our own complaints procedure is complete and you have taken all the other steps listed above.
Confidentiality
Details of your financial affairs are strictly confidential. Information about you or about your account is only disclosed to outside parties if you give your consent, or when the law requires us to do so.
You have the right to know what information we hold about you on our files. You can ask at any branch how to obtain this information. Please note that we make a small charge for this service.
 
We will not make your name or address available to other organisations for marketing purposes without your consent.
We use the information you give us to decide which of our products or services may be of interest to you and occasionally may want to give you details by way of post or by way of telephone call or email. You have the opportunity to tell us if you prefer not to receive such information.
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS
Charitable assignment
We require all new investors to agree to assign any future windfall benefits to the Charities Aid Foundation. A windfall benefit is a benefit which you, as a shareholding member of the Society, could receive in the unlikely event of any future transfer of our business by way of take over or conversion to a bank. Your savings will still be transferred to a new account with the successor organisation, but any additional benefits will count as windfall benefits. The agreement to assign is for a period of 5 years from the account opening date and will not apply in the event of a merger with another building society.
The Charities Aid Foundation receives and administers charitable donations which are passed on to other specific charitable organisations. They have agreed to use any money received by them under the assignment scheme to support housing, the environment, education, security, health and the relief of social exclusion.
If you were an existing shareholding member on 21 April 1999 and continuously maintain a shareholding account with us you are not affected by the change. For example, you may open new accounts or transfer monies from one account to another as an exempt customer.
There are other categories of exempt customers. These include all joint account holders and others (e.g. a deceased’s widow or widower) to whom an account already opened on 21 April 1999 is transferred.
This information is only a summary of the Charitable Assignment scheme; the complete terms are set out in our account application forms.
General and specific conditions
In addition to these conditions, the Special Conditions of your account are set out in the product leaflets. You should retain the leaflet for future reference. If any Special Condition is inconsistent with these conditions the Special Condition is to apply.
Membership of the society
You will be an investing member and are bound by our Rules. As a member you have a say in the way we conduct our affairs. You have important rights. You are entitled to take part in and vote at our Annual General Meeting (AGM) usually held in April, and any Special General Meeting. You will automatically receive notice of the AGM and a copy of our Annual Summary Financial Statement. You may request at any time a copy of the Society’s Rules and Memorandum, and a copy of the detailed Annual Report and Accounts for the previous year.
Joint account holders
If the account is in joint names you may choose the order in which the names appear in our records. The person whose name appears first in our records will be regarded as our member and you can decide whether one or both persons are required to authorise withdrawals. We do not recognise any trusts or other terms applicable to monies invested with us.
For joint accounts these terms and conditions and any special conditions apply to you together and each of you on your own.
If there is any dispute between you as joint account holders please inform us and we will arrange to place a stop on further transactions which do not have the authority of all signatories. Until that time, any authorised signature will discharge us from any liability in respect of money paid.
Membership document
When your account is opened we will hand or send you a passbook. Whilst this remains our property it is your evidence of membership and you must take care of it. We will ask you to produce the passbook each time you wish to make a transaction on your account, either a deposit or withdrawal.
If the passbook is lost you should notify your local branch or our Head Office Customer helpline on 08457 045 012. Please note that we cannot accept responsibility for any withdrawal made by any person producing the passbook and holding him or herself out to be you unless you have notified us that the passbook is missing.
We may open a new account for you when you have given us written details of the circumstances surrounding the loss of the passbook. If we are satisfied we will arrange a transfer of all the savings in your old account to the new account. We may charge a fee to cover our administrative costs.
Security for your savings
We are a member of the Building Societies Investor Protection Scheme established under the Building Societies Act 1986. Payments under this scheme are limited to ninety per cent of a saver’s total shares and/or deposits, subject to a maximum payment to any one investor of £18,000 (or the sterling equivalent of 20,000 Euro, if greater). Most shares and deposits nominated in sterling and other European Economic Area currencies at our offices are covered. Please ask if you would like more details.
Minimum investment
If the amount of money in the account falls below the minimum investment and/or balance set out in the specific conditions for the account, we may either pay interest on the money then invested in the account at the standard variable rate of interest which applies to the bottom band of our Classic Gold account, or we may close the account.
If we decide to close the account as a result of the amount of money in the account falling below the minimum investment and/or balance, we will pay interest up to and including the day before we close the account.
Maximum investment
The total amount which you may invest or deposit with us must not exceed £500,000. 
Cheque clearance
After paying in a cheque, you may not make a withdrawal for eight working days, unless the previous balance in your account is sufficient to cover it. This is because it can take up to this time for us to be certain that a cheque has been "cleared”.
Please note that our own cheques are regarded as being "cleared” immediately. This means that when you pay one of our cheques into your account, you can withdraw funds at once.
How your savings earn interest
Cash credits to your account earn interest from the day after receipt. Cheques paid into your account earn interest on the fourth bank working day after we receive them. For example, if we receive your cheque on a Monday, your money begins earning interest on the Friday.
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year. (As every advert for a savings product which quotes an interest rate will contain an AER, you will be able to compare more easily what return you can expect from your savings over time).
Income tax
For basic rate taxpayers, we are required by Inland Revenue regulations to deduct income tax at the appropriate rate from any interest paid and to account for this amount to the Inland Revenue. If you pay income tax at a higher rate, you will have to pay additional tax on the interest - to cover the difference between the tax deducted by us and the higher rate due.
If you are a non-taxpayer, we can pay interest gross (i.e. without deduction of tax). All you need to do is complete and return an R85 registration form. Please ask us if you need one. Non-taxpayers who have already had income tax deducted in a previous tax year should complete form R95 (only available from the Inland Revenue). It may also enable us to backdate the adjustment to the beginning of the current tax year. You may then be able to reclaim tax direct from the Inland Revenue.
On joint accounts where one saver is a non-taxpayer and the other pays tax, we can pay 50% of the interest gross.
If we have paid gross interest and we receive notification later that it should have been paid after deducting tax we reserve the right to recover any overpayment.
This right will not be used if we are responsible for the error.
Closing an account
You may close an account at any time, but please note that closing some accounts early may mean that you incur a financial penalty.
We may give at least one month’s written notice and repay your savings or any part of it. If this happens we will pay interest at the agreed rate up to and including the date of payment. Repayment may be sent by ordinary post to the person authorised as withdrawal signatory or signatories. We can only do this if your account has not been issued for a fixed term.
If monies standing to your credit are unclaimed for the requisite period and after enquiries we cannot trace you we close the account and the savings may be forfeited. If the amount is less than £100 the requisite period is three years, for sums greater than £100 the period is five years. If this happens, you may ask us to reopen the account and recredit monies.
Other debts to us
If you owe us any money, for example sums which may be due under a mortgage account or guarantee, we have a right to call on any money in an account you have with us. If we do this no further interest or bonus payment (if applicable) will be credited to the account.
Change of address and notification
Please keep us informed of any change of address. We are required to advise you of various issues affecting your membership of the Society and we will do this by writing to the last address you have given us. We are entitled to assume that it has reached you within 72 hours of posting to that address.
Transfer
We may transfer the savings to another person, but will only do so with your consent. We reserve the right to refuse a transfer.
Changes in interest rates
From time to time, like all financial institutions, we vary our interest rates. Such changes will be notified by letter or by advertisement in two of the following national newspapers.
• The Guardian
• The Independent
• The Daily Mail
• The Daily Telegraph
You are free to close your account if you are unhappy about the new rates of interest. Please note, however, that closing some types of account early can involve a financial penalty. Interest rate changes can take place to reflect any of the following:
• Current competitive interest rates in the financial markets
• Changes in the way we administer accounts
• Changes in the law or in the way we are regulated
Changes to terms and conditions
We do not normally do so, but occasionally terms and conditions may have to be changed. We will tell you personally and always give you at least 30 days’ notice before any change takes effect.
If the change is to your disadvantage, we will tell you personally and ignore any notice period on your account for at least 60 days starting from the date of the notice. You will not have to pay any additional charges or additional interest as a result of a switch or closure during this period.
Fees
There are no charges for normal account transactions. We may charge customers for services we regard as non-standard, such as replacing lost passbooks. If we do make a charge you will be advised at the time the service is requested.
Recording and monitoring telephone calls
We may record or monitor telephone calls in order to ensure security for our customers and staff and to help maintain service quality.
Law
The law of England and Wales governs the interpretations and enforcement of the terms of your account.
how to contact us
If you need more information about any of our accounts, our staff will be delighted to help you.
Our branch offices are open from 9am to 5pm, Mondays to Fridays, and from 9am to 12 noon on Saturdays. A list of branch addresses can be found on the back of this booklet.
Alternatively, please telephone our Customer helpline at Head Office on 08457 045 012. Out of normal business hours you will be able to leave a recorded message, and we will call you back as soon as possible.
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	We operate a Charitable Assignment Scheme (please click here to read full details).
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society is a Member of the Building Societies Association and subscriber to the Banking and Mortgage Codes. 
The Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life assurance, pensions and investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of Stroud & Swindon Building Society and Norwich Union.
	
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society | Rowcroft | Stroud | Gloucestershire | GL5 3BG 
	
	© Stroud and Swindon Building Society, 2001. All rights reserved.
	
	Telephone Calls may be monitored and recorded for training and security purposes
	Site design, build and management by 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 0800 61 81 61 
	 
	 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	 
 
	
 
