
 Financial Advice
	 
	 	 
	 	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 Head Office:
	 51-55 Duke Street,
	 Barrow-in-Furness,
	 Cumbria,
	 LA14 1RT.
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
<!/SCRIPT>
	 
	 
	 
	 www.furnessbs.co.uk
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 "Financial Advice at Furness Building Society".
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
Financial Planning
Welcome to Norwich Union
Furness Building Society are pleased to announce that from 1st January they have entered into a special relationship with one of the UK's largest insurers - Norwich Union.This means that our members benefit from Norwich Union's impressive products alongside the services we offer.
Bigger and Better
As valued Furness Building Society members, we want to offer you the best. The merger of CGN and Norwich Union created a bigger and better Norwich Union. In fact, Norwich Union is now the biggest financial provider in the UK, with the backing of £200 billion funds under management. That's why we're confident that through our special relationship, our members will now be able to choose from an impressive, full range of value for money quality products.
A confidential financial planning service is available to all our customers. It does not matter how young or old you are. Careful financial planning means you will be able to make the most of your money and take care of unforeseen circumstances in life.
Who needs Financial Planning?
Everybody. Money makes the world go round. And unfortunately no matter how much you have, you could always do with just a little more. Planning for your financial future is a complicated task, but not an impossible one.
Your personal aims in life are likely to include such events as starting work, planning a dream holiday, getting married, buying a home, having children, leaving work and retiring. Rather than stumbling on towards these eventualities, you can choose to be financially prepared.
About Norwich Union
By choosing Norwich Union, the UK’s largest insurance group, you benefit from our financial strength and the backing of over £200 billion of funds under management. Together with millions of customers worldwide, you can feel certain of your choice; whether you invest for the future, provide 
against the unexpected, or protect the things that are important to you. 
Through our association with Norwich Union, you can benefit from an even wider range of services including financial advice on:
	
 
 
 
	 
	 
 Retirement & pension planning 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 Savings & investments 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 Family & income protection 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 Protection against serious illness 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 Inheritance tax planning 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 Protecting your business 
 
With leading technology, a Norwich Union Financial Consultant can provide a no-obligation individual 
financial report, to help you make the most of your 
savings and investments. To take advantage of this service, 
simply telephone 
0800 22 05 68
 or call into your local branch to make 
an appointment.
	
	 
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
