
Skipton Building Society - investments - bonus portfolio
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	investment portfolio 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Portfolio
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Apply Now
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Request a Pack
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Guide
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Jargon Buster
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	ISA Q+A
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Rates
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Banking Code
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Financial Market Information
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Investment Tariff of Charges
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	The Skipton Bonus Portfolio allows investors to balance their need for security and access with the potential long-term growth rewards of the stock market. It's actually an innovative combination of two investments, the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond (our own branded version of Norwich Union's Portfolio Bond), and the Access Account. 
	
	
	
	
	how the bonus portfolio works for you
	 
	
	
	
	With an overall minimum investment of £10,000 and maximum of £300,000, Bonus Portfolio is a combination of two elements.
	
	A minimum of 70% of the overall investment is placed in the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond and the remaining funds, up to 30%, are invested in the Access Account. The Bond is ideal for the more cautious investor who, nevertheless, wishes to benefit from the kind of high growth potential that's available from the stock market. 
	
	
	
	
	high interest
	- plus a generous bonus
	 
	
	
	
	The Access Account pays an extremely generous variable rate of annual interest, currently 3.40% gross per annum / AER. 
	
	With the Bonus Portfolio Access Account, you can have this rate for an investment as low as £3,000. What's more, although the rate is variable, it's guaranteed to remain at least equal to the £30,000-£49,999 banding on our High Street Account until 31st December 2002.
	
	Add to this the bonus rate of 3.0% which is guaranteed for 1 full year from the date of opening and you've got a quite exceptional current annual gross rate of 6.40% gross per annum / AER, a return you'll find very hard to better with any other building society or bank account.
	
	If you prefer to have your interest paid monthly, then the variable rate is slightly lower at 3.15% gross per annum. 
	The bonus rate, however, remains at 3.0% for 1 full year from the date of opening, so overall, your rate will currently be 6.15% gross 
	per annum (6.33% AER). 
	
	
	
	
	skipton - a society that values its customers
	 
	
	
	
	The Society receives commission from Norwich Union for distributing the company's products to our customers. A proportion of this commission is used to provide the bonus on the Access Account, so you receive the benefit.
	
	EXAMPLE
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	30%
	
	
	
	ACCESS ACCOUNT
	
	3.40% GROSS P.A.
	
	PLUS A BONUS OF 3.0% GROSS P.A.
	
	SHORT TERM AVAILABILITY
	
	 
	 
	
	
	70%
	
	
	
	FLEXIBLE INVESTMENT BOND
	
	HIGH GROWTH POTENTIAL
	
	LONG-TERM INVESTMENT
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	about the flexible investment bond
	 
	
	
	
	The Flexible Investment Bond is a lump sum investment with no fixed term,which invests in the units of one or more of Norwich Union's investment funds. Investing in the Bond allows you to balance the return you can potentially receive with the level of security you require.
	
	You should see your bond as a long term investment. This usually means at least 5 years. You can keep your bond for as long as you choose, there is no fixed date when it has to end.
	
	There are four investment funds available, allowing you to choose the one which best suits your individual requirements in terms of security and potential rewards. The value of an investment in the Flexible Investment Bond can go down as well as up and is not guaranteed, apart from the Guaranteed Fund which guarantees to return the whole of your initial investment at the fifth policy anniversary. Withdrawals, switches and additional life cover charges, if any, from the fund will reduce the guaranteed amount in proportion to the number of units cancelled.
	
	Further details of the Flexible Investment Bond and its investment funds are provided in the Flexible Investment Bond leaflet. This is available from your local Skipton Branch. 
	
	
	
	
	about the access account
	 
	
	
	
	The bonus rate of 3.0% gross p.a. is a guaranteed rate which will not change. It is payable for 1 full year from the date of opening.
	
	Although the basic interest rate is variable and is not guaranteed, in the unlikely event of it falling short of your expectations, the account offers penalty free access, which means your funds are available to you at any time. You can make withdrawals by cheque without being penalised (minimum £500, subject to maintaining a balance of at least £2,000). However, you will not be able to make any additions to your account during the bonus period - even to replace amounts which you may have withdrawn. 
	
	
	
	
	how to take advantage of this opportunity
	 
	
	
	
	To ensure you get the best advice, we would be delighted if you would contact your local branch where you can discuss the plan with one of our qualified staff. You may wish to telephone the branch for an appointment or alternatively arrange a meeting in the comfort of your own home. For details of your nearest branch use our branch locator. 
	
	
	
	
	charitable assignment
	 
	
	
	
	Skipton Building Society has found that its usual high standard of service to its committed members has been disrupted by the actions of speculators. To avoid continued disruption of its business the Society requires new investors to agree to assign any potential windfall benefits they receive to a charity (currently the Skipton Building Society Charitable Foundation) in the event of a transfer of the Society's business to a bank or other company announced within 5 years of their accounts being opened. Existing shareholding members as at 29th February 2000 who continuously maintain a shareholding account are not affected by this change. Skipton Building Society still continues to welcome genuine customers who appreciate the long term value of investing with a Building Society. 
	
	
	
	
	
	complaint procedure
	 
	
	
	
	If you are not happy with our service, we have an internal complaints procedure. You can view this in the Customer Service area of this site or ask for details of this procedure at a branch or from our Principal Office. Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Talking Financial Sense
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Terms and Conditions
	
	Skipton Flexible Investment Bond
	
	
- Further information can be found in the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond leaflet and Key Features document.
	
- The Bonus Portfolio account invests a minimum of 70% of your capital in the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond, a branded version of Norwich Union's Portfolio Bond, which is a lump sum investment with no fixed term, which does not have a maturity date and is not specifically designed to be cashed in after five years. A choice of three pre-selected investment funds is available.
	
- An investment in the Guaranteed Fund guarantees a return of all initial capital at the 5th anniversary of the policy. Withdrawals, switches and additional life cover charges, if any, from the fund will reduce the guaranteed amount in proportion to the number of units cancelled.
	
- Norwich Union is liable to corporation tax on its funds, which cannot be reclaimed. There may be a liability to pay tax on any gains or withdrawals in excess of the 5% annual allowance at the difference between the basic and higher rate of tax if you are, or become, a higher rate taxpayer, on encashment. Any Age Allowance to which you may be entitled may be affected. Please remember, the law relating to taxation is liable to change.
	
- It is important to understand that the income referred to in the With Profit Income Fund is different from the interest you get from a bank or building society account. depending on the level of income taken the 'income' you receive may include a partial withdrawal of your initial invest ment in the fund.
	
- We may need to make a market value reduction on full or partial encashments, or certain regular withdrawals or income payments or on switching out of the With Profit Fund. This will depend on the investment condition at the time and would reduce the quoted value of youe investment. As a result, the value of your investment is not guaranteed and can go down as well as up.
	
- Full written details are available on request.
	
	the Access Account
	
	
- This penalty free access rate is only available as part of the Bonus Portfolio.
	
- The minimum investment is £3,000 and the maximum investment is £300,000.
	
- All transactions must be made by cheque. 
	
- Following your initial investment, you will have 14 days from the date the account was opened in which to change your mind and request cancellation of your investment. Any such request must be in writing and must be received at the Society's Principal Office within 14 days of your initial investment.
	
- No additional investments can be made into the Access Account during the bonus period, even to replace amounts which may have been withdrawn. This account will be closed if your balance drops below £2,000.
	
- The interest rate is guaranteed to remain at least equal to the rate payable on the £30,000-£49,999 banding on our High Street Account until 31.12.2002. Interest rates are variable.
	
- (i)	For the annual interest option, interest will accrue on a daily basis and will be added to your account at midnight on the anniversary year end. Alternatively interest may be paid directly into your bank account or to another suitable Skipton Building Society account.
	
	(ii)	For the monthly interest option, interest will accrue on a daily basis and will be paid into your bank account or another suitable Skipton Building Society account on the first working day of each month (except January, when interest will be paid on the second working day).
	
- (i)	For the annual interest option, bonus interest will accrue on a daily basis for 1 full year from the time of opening, and will be paid on the 1st anniversary year end in the same way as your account interest as specified in 7(i) above.
	
	(ii)	For the monthly interest option, bonus interest will be accrued on a daily basis for 1 full year from the date of opening and will be paid on the first working day of each month into a bank account or another suitable Skipton Building Society account (except January when interest will be paid on the second working day).
	
- Should you cancel the Bond during the cooling off period, the Access Account variable rate will change to the Society's High Street account rate and will be subject to the terms and conditions of that account with a rate appropriate for the level of investment and no bonus will be paid.
	
- Interest will be paid or credited after deduction of income tax at the lower rate of 20% or, subject to the required certification, gross. Individuals who are non-taxpayers, and who have not registered to receive their interest without tax deducted, can claim a repayment of tax from the Inland Revenue. Individuals with taxable income in the starting rate band of 10% who are due to pay less tax than the amount deducted from their interest can also claim such a repayment. Individuals whose interest falls within the basic rate band will have no more tax to pay on their interest, as the tax deducted from it at 20% will satisfy the tax due. Individuals who are higher rate taxpayers will have to pay the extra tax due on their interest (the difference between tax deducted at 20% and the higher rate of 40%).
	
- Skipton Building Society is a participant of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits in a society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of shares and deposits are not covered, for example deferred shares - permanent interest bearing shares. Although most shares and deposits are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society.
	
- The Access Account is a Share Account which confers membership rights.
	
- This account is only open to individuals in the UK.
	
- This account is subject to our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions and the Rules of the Society. These contain important information about the account and should be read before you open it. Copies can be obtained from any branch or our Principal Office.
	
- The terms of the charitable assignment arrangements are set out in the Investment Application forms as well as our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions leaflet. There are certain categories of investor who will be exempt from assigning any future windfall rights. A list of these categories is available from any branch or our Principal Office.
	
- We subscribe to the Banking Code, copies of which are available on request.
	
- If you are not satisfied with our service, we have an internal complaints procedure. You should ask for details of this procedure at a branch or from our Principal Office.
	
	AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year.
	
	The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group. Both the Society and Norwich Union are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	
	Any financial advice given on life assurance, pensions and investments will relate only to the products of the Society and Norwich Union.
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
