 
 
 
 
Ipswich Building Society
Customer
Advisor (Full Time) Head Office Branch, Ipswich
This is a suburb opportunity for a Sixth Form/College leaver
looking to develop a career in Financial Services. In order to be considered for
this position, you must possess at least 5 GCSE's (which must include Maths and
English at Grades A-C). 
As a Customer Advisor you will be required to carry out a variety of duties.
These consist of processing various transactions, carrying out investment
interviews and above all, providing helpful and friendly advice to our
customers.
You must be numerate, with cash handling experience, along with good keyboard
skills. You must also enjoy working with the public. Familiarity of a busy sales
environment is also useful so that you are able to recognise and develop every
sales opportunity. You must be an enthusiastic and confident person with strong
communication skills as these are essential qualities for this role.
Salary is expected to be in the region of £10,500 per annum plus additional
pay for Saturday working. We offer 23 days annual holiday and provide you with a
free staff uniform and other benefits associated with this type of work.
If you are capable of building strong, trusting relationships with your
customers and can work well as part of a team: then we are very interested in
hearing from you.
 
- Should you feel that you possess the necessary qualities to
 fulfil a position at Ipswich Building Society, we would be very interested
 to hear from you.
 
 
- In order to apply for any of our vacancies, simply click here.
 
If you have a query, would like us to call you for an informal chat, or would
like more information, please click here.
 
 
- Alternatively, you may contact the following for more
 details on the above or any other Ipswich Building Society vacancies.
 
 
 Write to:
 Roz Kemp or Sarah Nicholson
 Ipswich Building Society
 Human Resources Department
 44 Upper Brook Street
 Ipswich
 Suffolk
 IP4 1DP 
 Telephone:
 (01473) 211021
 Email:
 jobs@ipswichbuildingsociety.co.uk
 
 
 
 
