
	
	
	
 
	1.5% Discount for 6 months
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Correct as at 10/04/2002
	 
	
	
	
	
	 Discount & Variable 
	 
	
	
	Flexible
	 
	
	
	Fixed
	 
	
	
	Capped
	 
	
	
	Cashback 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
Flexible Discount Mortgage
	
	
Interest Rate / Period
	
	
	
	
	
	Rate 
	4.09% 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	APR 
	5.20% 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	Period 
	6 Months 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	Rate 
	4.84% 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	APR 
	5.00% 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	Period 
	114 Months 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
Benefits / Features
	
	
	
- 1.50% discount for 6 months followed by 0.75% discount for 9 years and 6 months followed by standard variable rate for term.
	
- Maximum advance 90%.
	
- Minimum loan £30,000.
	
- Arrangement fee £295 or 0.1% of valuation, whichever is the greater.
	
- No redemption tie in.
	
- Capital repayments allowed without penalty.
	
- Payment holidays.
	
- Lump sum withdrawals.
	
- High lending fee required if amount exceeds 80% of the valuation or purchase price, whichever is the lower.
	
- Society's payment protection must also be taken with a loan to value in excess of 80%. The first 3 months' premiums are paid by the Society.
	
- Daily interest.
	
	
	
	
	
	Written quotations are available on request, subject to status.
	
	
	A first charge over the property will be required as security for a mortgage
	
	
	
	
	All mortgages are subject to status, valuation and a minimum age of 18.
	
	Marsden Building Society is a member of the Financial Ombudsman Scheme and the General Insurance Standards Council. The Society has an internal complaints procedure, details of which are available on request. Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The Society subscribes to the Banking and Mortgage Codes, copies of which are available on request.
	
	
	
	
	Marsden Building Society introduces to the Norwich Union Marketing Group (NUMG) for life assurance, pensions and investments.The Society and NUMG are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
