
	
 Scarborough Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 	One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) Limited Edition
	 	
	 	2.10% (Gross per annum), variable rate on savings of £50,000 and above, (AER 2.10%)
	 
 	One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) is designed to give you the security of an interest rate guaranteed to be 0.50% gross above the Society's Scarborough 30 By Post Account.
 	
 	Product features
 	
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	MINIMUM INVESTMENT
	 	
	 	The minimum investment required to open a One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue 1) Account is £1,000.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	MATURITY
	 	
	 	You will be notified in writing of the maturity of your One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue 1), and have one month from maturity to transfer, withdraw or close your account with no notice penalty free access.
If you do not notify the Society of your intentions the account will be re-invested into a One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue 1) with the same Terms and Conditions.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	14 DAY COOLING OFF PERIOD
	 	
	 	See the Society's General Investment Conditions for full details.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Annual Interest
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Effective Date: 12/01/01
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	From 
	 	To 
	 	Gross % p.a.* 
	 	Net % p.a.* 
	 	AER** 
	 	
	 	
	£50,000 
	£250,000 
	2.10 
	1.68 
	2.10 
	£25,000 
	£49,999.99 
	2.05 
	1.64 
	2.05 
	£10,000 
	£24,999.99 
	2.00 
	1.60 
	2.00 
	£1,000 
	£9,999.99 
	1.95 
	1.56 
	1.95 
	 	
	 	
	 	Monthly Interest
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Effective Date: 12/01/01
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	From 
	 	To 
	 	Gross % p.a.* 
	 	Net % p.a.* 
	 	AER** 
	 	
	 	
	£50,000 
	£250,000 
	1.87 
	1.50 
	1.89 
	£25,000 
	£49,999.99 
	1.82 
	1.46 
	1.84 
	£10,000 
	£24,999.99 
	1.77 
	1.42 
	1.78 
	£1,000 
	£9,999.99 
	1.72 
	1.38 
	1.73 
 
 
	 	INTEREST
	
F0\
E1¼t will be paid or credited after deduction of income tax at the lower rate of 20% or, subject to the required certification, gross.
**AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year. (As every advertisement for a savings product which quotes an interest rate will contain an AER, you will be able to compare more easily what return you can expect from your savings over time.) If you close your account within the one year term you will lose 35 days' gross interest. This means that the stated rate of interest will not be achieved. Please note that, because monthly interest cannot be added to your account, the AER will be the same as the monthly gross interest rate.
 	
	 	GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
	These terms and conditions (and those contained in the Scarborough Building Society general investment conditions) together with the Scarborough Building Society Memorandum and Rules set out the contractual relationship between Scarborough Building Society ('the Society'), and you, the member.
These conditions contain important information and should be read by you before you open an account with the Society. These conditions are available on this site by clicking on Other Information. 
 	
	 	OPENING AN ACCOUNT
	The minimum investment required to open a One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) is £1,000.
The maximum amount which may be invested in a One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) upon opening and during the life of the account is £250,000. This includes any interest which is credited to the account.
The Society reserves the right to close your One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) if the balance falls below £1,000.
The initial payment and any subsequent payments to your One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) will only be accepted in the form of a cheque or transfer from an existing Society investment account.
The One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) is not available to any types of Trustees.
This is a share account and on opening the account, the account holder(s) will become an investing member(s) of the Society, in accordance with its Rules.
 	
	 	PROOF OF IDENTITY
	Proof of identity and verification of address are required for all applicants. Two original documents, not more than three months old are required for each investor, photocopies are not acceptable. The documents will be returned to you and should be either:
- Utility bill (e.g. Gas/Electricity)
- Bank/Building Society Statement
- Current Council Tax/Notice of Tax Coding
and MUST show the name and address of the investor as it appears on the application form. Further verification checks may be carried out by the Society.
If you already have an account with the Society bearing your current address, identification is not required.
Unless proof of identity is provided, and all appropriate sections of the application form have been completed, including date of birth, we will return your investment to you.
 	
	 	INTEREST
	Interest that is paid annually will be added to the account balance on maturity of the account.
Interest that is payable monthly must be forwarded to a designated bank/building society account, and will be paid to your designated bank/building society account on the first working day of each calendar month.
The interest option cannot be amended during the term of the account.
If the balance of your One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) falls below £1,000, the interest rate payable for the period that the balance remains below £1,000 will be the Society's variable base savings rate applicable at the time. Details are available on request.
For the one year term, the interest rate payable on the One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) is guaranteed to be 0.50% gross higher than the interest rate payable on the Scarborough 30 By Post Account for the same account balance.
All rates are variable, and the gross monthly rates do not normally compound to the full annual rates shown.
 	
	 	WITHDRAWALS
	Your One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I) cannot be operated through any of the Society's branches.
No withdrawals are permitted during the term of the One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I).
Closure before maturity will be subject to a penalty equivalent to 35 days' gross interest on the balance of the account.
No notice can be given during the term of the One Year Variable Rate Bond By Post (Issue I).
This account does not offer cheque withdrawals payable to a third party. All closure cheques will be made payable to one or all of the account holders and sent to the last address on record.
Within 24 hours of receipt of instructions, the Society, wherever possible, will process all cheque withdrawals and transfers to other accounts subject to account terms and conditions.
 	
	 	BANKING CODE
	The Society fully supports the aims of the Banking Code. Please visit this page.
OTHER INFORMATION
Please click on this page for details of the Society's Charitable Assignment Scheme and Money Laundering Prevention requirements.
 	
	 
 
 
 If you are interested in receiving further information about this product click here:
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Written quotations are available on request.
	
	
	Applicants must be aged 18 or over. In all cases the property will be security for the loan.
	Suitable life assurance may be required. All loans and benefits subject to status.
 
 
	The Society is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 Representative only of the Legal & General Marketing Group,	 members of which are
 regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for the purposes of making introductions
 to other representatives for recommending, advising on and selling life assurance and
 investment products bearing Legal & General's name.
	 
	 
 
 
 	
 	
	 	
	 	Find out about our lastest mortgage offer
	 	
	 	
	 	
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
