
PROPERTY DETAILS -
insurance
 
 
 
 BUILDING
 AND CONTENTS INSURANCE 
 It
 is essential that the property and its contents are adequately insured and
 the Society can arrange cover with a major insurance company to suit your
 needs. The insurance policy arranged will provide protection to your
 property OR combined property and contents against major causes of loss or
 damage. It is a convenient, easy and inexpensive method of arranging your
 insurance needs. The amount of buildings insurance cover is based on a
 figure recommended by our valuers, the contents are automatically insured up
 to a maximum of £35,000. If your contents exceed this figure please advise
 the Society immediately.
 
Accidental damage
 cover is recommended to ensure you receive maximum benefit in the event of a
 claim. 
 Please
 indicate the type of insurance you require 
 Buildings only
 
 Buildings and Contents 
 
 including
 accidental damage cover 
 The
 Premium will be included in your Monthly payment.
 If you would prefer to pay your premium annually, please ask your local
 branch for further details.
 
The Society's
 arrangements with its Insurers for Buildings or Buildings and Contents
 Insurance do not require completion of detailed insurance proposal forms.
 However, a contract of insurance requires disclosure of all facts which an
 insurer would regard as likely to influence the acceptance and assessment of
 an insurance proposal.
 If you are in any doubt about facts considered material, you should disclose
 them. Failure to do so may affect the settlement of a claim or render the
 policy invalid.
 If any answer is YES, or you are in any doubt as to whether facts are
 material, please give full details on a separate sheet attached to this
 application form.
 You should keep a record (including copies of letters) of all information
 supplied for the purposes of entering into the insurance contract.
 
 Have
 you, or any member of your family normally residing with you: 
 1
 (a) ever been convicted of, or is any prosecution pending, for
 any criminal offence other than a driving offence?
 NOTE: You are not required to disclose convictions regarded
 as "spent" by virtue of the Rehabilitation of
 Offenders Act 1974 
 
YES NO
 
 
 (b) had any home or personal insurance declined, cancelled
 or had special terms imposed? 
 
YES NO
 
 2
 Have you or any other persons normally resident with you at 
 your present address or elsewhere sustained any loss,
 damage or liability, whether insured or not during the past 5
 years arising from risks which can be insured under a
 Householders' Building or Contents Policy? 
 
YES NO
 
 3
 Will the property be left unoccupied for any reason for more
 than 1 month at a time? 
 
YES NO
 
 4
 Will the property be used for business or professional
 reasons? 
 
YES NO
 
 
If you
 have answered YES to any of these questions please give full details
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We
 will issue the cover on the basis of the information supplied by you or on
 your behalf. Please tell us immediately of any changes that affect what you
 have told us e.g. the use of the property is changed, or you add an
 extension or install double glazing or central heating.
 A specimen copy of the policy form is available on request.
 A copy of this application will be supplied on request within three months
 of completion of the mortgage.
 
Insurance cover will
 commence on completion of the mortgage, or earlier on request
 
To allow for rising
 costs, the insurance value will be adjusted monthly in line with the
 Building Housing Cost Index as prepared by RICS, or some similar index. The
 premium will be amended yearly and is likely to increase each year.
 If you wish, you may arrange the insurance through another nominated
 insurance company. The details of the insurance must be approved by the
 Society and reasonable consideration will be given to such a proposal. A
 charge will be made to cover the extra administration costs involved.
 Insurers and their agents share information with each other to prevent
 fraudulent claims and to assess whether to offer insurance including the
 terms via the Claims and Underwriting Exchange register, operated by
 Insurance Database Services Ltd. A list of participants is available on
 request. In dealing with your application this register may be searched. In
 the event of a claim, the information you supply on this form and the claim
 form, together with information relating to the claim, will be put on the
 register and made available to participants.
 Having completed this section please ensure you read and sign the
 declaration overleaf.
 
 
 
>'>
 
