
TESSA-ONLY ISA 2nd ISSUE - Terms & Conditions
 
 
 
Investment Limits
 
 
- The minimum investment
 is £1,000, but you can invest up to £9,000 capital from
 a matured TESSA (excluding interest credited) into a TESSA ONLY ISA (2nd Issue) within six months of the TESSA maturity date. Amounts invested this
 way do not count towards the annual subscription limits and may be
 made at anytime during the six month period, which may straddle two
 tax years.
 
 This rule applies to TESSAs maturing at anytime after 5th January
 1999 (provided you have not opened a further TESSA before 6th April
 1999 - the proceeds of which may benefit from this rule on maturity
 in 2004).
 
 It also means that you can open a TESSA ONLY ISA (2nd Issue) and then subsequently
 open a FURNESS MINI CASH ISA, in the same tax year.
 
 
Interest 
 
 
- Interest is added
 to your TESSA-ONLY ISA (2nd Issue) on 5th April annually tax free and may be withdrawn
 without penalty or notice.
 
 
 Withdrawals
 and Closure
 
 
- You can withdraw
 from or close your TESSA-ONLY ISA (2nd Issue) without penalty if you can give
 90 days notice, otherwise you will lose 90 days interest on the
 amount withdrawn or the closing balance.
 
 
Who can open
 an ISA?
 
 
- To open an TESSA-ONLY
 ISA (2nd Issue) you must be: 
 
 
 
 
- an individual
 aged 18 or over
 
 
 
- resident
 and ordinarily resident in the UK (subject to an exception for
 certain crown employees)
 
 
 
 
 
- If you cease
 to meet the second condition you may not make further subscriptions
 to an ISA, but may keep the continuing benefit of the tax reliefs
 on the accumulated funds.
 
- You can only
 open a TESSA-ONLY ISA (2nd Issue) in your own name.
 
 
 
 Transfers 
 
 
- Transfers to
 other ISA providers are permitted subject to 90 days notice.
 
 
Cancellation
 Period
 
 
- You may cancel
 your application to subscribe to a TESSA-ONLY ISA (2nd issue) during the first
 thirty days after the account was opened.
 
 
 
- Interest will
 be paid to you gross during the cancellation period.
 
 
 
- You may still
 subscribe to another ISA in the same year and for the full amount
 once your ISA has been cancelled.
 
 
Transactions
 
 
- All TESSA-ONLY
 ISA (2nd issue) transactions must be either by cash or cheque.
 
 
Charitable
 Assignment Scheme
 
 
- All new savers
 opening share accounts must sign a declaration agreeing to assign
 any future windfall rights to the Charities Aid Foundation. For more
 information please visit the Mutuality page of our web site or telephone
 Furness Direct on 0800 22 05 68. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
