
Home-buyer's guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > Home > Mortgages > Buying a new home > Home-buyer's guide 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buying a new home
 
 
 
 
 
 Home-buyer's guide 
 
 
 
 
 Products at a glance 
 
 
 
 
 Questions & Answers 
 
 
 
 
 The Mortgage Code 
 
 
 
 
 Terms & Conditions 
 
 
 
 
 Jargon Buster 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Remortgage your home
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Portman Mortgage Customers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy to Let Mortgages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How to Apply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- The home-buying process -
In nine practical steps.
 
- Choosing the right home for you -
Make a list of your essential requirements.
 
- Your moving home checklist -
 Taking care of the details.
The home-buying process
Step 1 - Work out how much money you can reasonably afford to borrow. You can do this by using our
Affordability
Calculator. As a general rule, you may borrow up to 3.25 times your annual 
income, or 2.75 times your joint annual income, if there are two applicants.
Step 2 - Once you have worked out how much you can afford to borrow, 
look for a property within this price range. It is important to compare 
different
 Estate Agents.
Step 3 - When you have found a property you would like to buy; you need to ascertain if the Portman can lend you the required amount of loan. 
Don't forget that you will also need to pay a deposit. To find out quickly how 
much the Portman can lend you use our Decision in Principle calculator.
Step 4 - Once your offer (subject to mortgage) on the property has been accepted, you can apply to the Portman for a mortgage. There are several ways you can do this:
 
- 
 
Fill out the online application form.
 
- 
 
Print the application form, complete it and send it to the Portman
 by post.
 
- 
 
Telephone our Direct Mortgage Centre on 0800 548548.
Lines are open from 9.00am to 6.00pm on Monday to Friday
and from 9.00am to 12.30pm on Saturday.
 
- 
 
Call into one of our branches and speak to a mortgage advisor in person.
Step 5 - You will then need to have the property valued to ensure that 
you are getting what you pay for.
Step 6 - Once the mortgage has been agreed, you will receive an Offer of Advance.
Step 7 - At this stage, you will need to appoint a Solicitor to help you with the legal procedures. Click on
 Solicitor to find out what's involved in this process.
Step 8 - Once the contracts have been exchanged on the property, you are legally bound to it.
Step 9 - When your mortgage completes, the Portman will arrange for the agreed funds to be transferred to your
Conveyancer.
Step 10 - The property is now your home, and all that remains is for you to pick up the keys!
Choosing the right home for you
Everyone has a very different idea of what their dream home will look like, and very different needs when it comes to the list of requirements the property must
fulfil.
To make those ideas become clearer, we have come up with a useful checklist to help you think about the kind of decisions you need to make.
Useful checklist
Step 1 - What properties are in your price range?
Check out property websites and estate agent windows to gain an idea of the types of properties that you can reasonably afford to buy.
Step 2 - What kind of property are you looking for?
Make a list of the essential requirements of the property, and the features you are prepared to make a compromise on.
Type of Property
 
- House (detached).
 
- House (semi-detached).
 
- Bungalow.
 
- Flat.
 
- Maisonette.
 
- Property in need of renovation.
What features are essential?
 
- Number of bedrooms.
 
- Number of bathrooms.
 
- Number of reception rooms.
 
- Double glazing.
 
- Central heating.
 
- Garage.
 
- Garden.
 
- Parking.
 
- 
Location. Make a list of the areas you would like to live in and the amenities the property should be accessible to.
 
- Access to public transport.
 
- Access to shops and local amenities.
 
- Access to children's play area.
 
- Close to good local schools.
 
- A quiet, mainly residential area.
Who else will I need help from?
Estate Agents, Solicitors and Surveyors
 
- Estate Agents.
 
- Solicitors.
 
- Surveyors.
Estate Agents
The Estate Agent will help find and arrange viewing of suitable properties within your price range. Once you have chosen your property they will act on your behalf to deal with the vendor and valuer to negotiate the sale of the property on behalf of the seller.
Solicitors
Once your mortgage has been agreed, you will need to appoint a Solicitor to help you with legal procedures, such as the
 Conveyancing
 of your chosen property, or to deal with the sale of your existing property.
Solicitors may also become involved in local issues, for example, environmental searches to resolve anything that may adversely affect your property. 
Finally, your solicitor will arrange the Exchange of Contracts
when you come to complete your mortgage.
Surveys
A basic survey will confirm the value of your chosen property, while more in-depth surveys will investigate the overall condition and structure of the property.
There are 3 types of surveys to choose from:
 
- The Mortgage Valuation
The mortgage valuation survey is an essential requirement of the home-buying process. It is prepared solely for the Portman to assess the value of the property for mortgage purposes and to enable us to decide on how much we can lend you and under what terms and conditions.
 
- Home-buyer's Report and Valuation
The homebuyer's report and valuation is more comprehensive. It will report on the state of repair and general condition of the property. The report will also produce an opinion, based on an open market valuation, which will help you to decide whether or not the price you have agreed to pay is realistic.
 
- Full Structural Survey
A full structural survey is carried out by a private surveyor and goes one step further. It is based on a detailed technical examination of the property and provides an extensive report on its state of repair and condition.
The cost of a full structural survey will depend on the purchase price, the age, type and size of the property. 
Your Moving Home Checklist
The key to a stress-free house move is good organisation!
 
- 
Take gas and electricity metre readings in your new home as soon as you move in. This will ensure that you are only paying your bills, and not those of the previous owner.
 
- 
Contact the utility companies and ask them to bill you from the day you move in to your new property
 
- 
Make a checklist of everyone you need to notify about your change of address e.g.
- Building Society/Bank.
- Credit Card companies.
- Insurance companies.
- Utility companies.
- As well as your family and friends.
 
- 
Remember to cancel any deliveries to your previous address.
 
- 
Arrange telephone connections for your new home.
 
- 
Arrange for buildings and contents insurance for your new home to take effect the day you move in.
For information about the Portman's full range of Home and Contents Insurance products, simply visit our 
Insurance pages.
Buying a home in Scotland
If you are planning to buy a home in Scotland, the home-buying process will differ slightly. The main variance is that once an offer on the property has been accepted, it becomes legally binding.
This reduces the opportunity for other buyers to gazump
you.
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER 
LOAN SECURED ON IT
Portman Building Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, 
members of which are regulated by the Financial Service Authority, for life 
assurance, pensions and investments.
 
 
Mortgage Selector
Mortgage Affordability
Calculator
Mortgage
Payments Calculator
Mortgage Decision in Principle
Q&A
Mortgage
Code
Jargon Buster
Branch Finder
Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 
© 2001 Portman Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
