
Skipton Building Society - investments - direct 30 
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	investment portfolio 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Portfolio
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Apply Now
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Request a Pack
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Guide
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Jargon Buster
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	ISA Q+A
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Rates
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Banking Code
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Financial Market Information
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Investment Tariff of Charges
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	A 1st class return from a
1st class building society
	 
	
	
	
	
	A secure investment
	 
	
	
	
	A building society has always been recognised by investors as a safe, reliable and rewarding place to invest their money.
	
	Skipton Building Society is no exception. In fact we're one of the UK's leading societies with group assets of almost £6 billion.
	
	We're a mutual organisation which means we don't have shareholders to answer to. Our investors and borrowers are our members. It's our philosophy to offer the best products and services that we can possibly manage - for the benefit of our members.
	
	We've enjoyed, over many years, a reputation for providing innovative and competitive investment products for our members. It's a reputation we guard jealously.
	 
	
	
	
	
	Skipton Direct a first class service
	 
	
	
	
	Now you can enjoy the Skipton style of service wherever you live. With Skipton Direct 30, you don't just get a high interest investment account. It's an account you can run from the comfort of your armchair.
	
	Direct 30 is an account which is operated through the first class postal system. It's an account which, in return for your agreement to give us 30 days' notice when you wish to make a withdrawal, will provide a very rewarding home for your money.
	
	If you've a substantial sum to invest and you're not worried about immediate access to your money, here's an account that offers first class rates. 
	
	
	
	
	A first class return with Direct 30
	 
	
	
	
	Direct 30 has tiered variable interest rates so the bigger your investment, the better your return. Invest from £10,000, the minimum amount, and you'll get an excellent variable rate of interest. For an investment of £30,000 or more you'll get the account's very best rate.
	
	
	
	Investment 
	 
	Annual
gross p.a./AER 
	 
	 Monthly
gross p.a. 
	
AER 
	
	 
	
	£10,000 to £29,999 
	3.95% 
	3.60% 
	3.66% 
	
	 
	
	£30,000 or more 
	4.20% 
	3.85% 
	3.92% 
	
	
	
	Naturally, with these excellent returns, you won't have instant access to your money. But there are penalty free withdrawal facilities. 
	
	
	
	
	Penalty free access
four times a year
	 
	
	
	
	You can take advantage of four notice periods every calendar year, during which you can make penalty free withdrawals, simply by advising us in writing 30 days beforehand. You must take out at least £500 each time and your withdrawals must be by cheque, made payable to the account holder(s). Please bear in mind that you can only give notice to withdraw penalty free on four occasions in each calendar year whether or not the withdrawal is subsequently made. You may not have more than one notice period running at any time.
	
	You can, of course, make withdrawals at any time without giving notice, but there will be an automatic charge of 30 days interest on the amount withdrawn for all such transactions.
	
	Please note that closing the account is classed as a withdrawal. 
	
	
	
	
	Choose how you want
to receive your interest
	 
	
	
	
	You can have your interest paid annually or monthly, the choice is entirely yours. Just remember that, if you choose monthly interest, your rate will be slightly lower than it would be for annual interest.
	
	You can also select how you want it paid. We can add it to your account on 31st March each year, or we can pay it directly into your bank account. If you opt for monthly interest payments, however, it cannot be added to your account and must be paid out to your bank account. 
	
	
	
	
	Operating your account
	 
	
	
	
	When you open your account you'll receive a folder containing everything you'll need to operate your account by post: -
	
	
	
- Your opening statement.
	
- Transaction slips.
	
- Reply paid envelopes.
	
	
	When you want to add to your account or give us notice that you wish to make a withdrawal, simply complete the transaction slip and post it to us. We'll send you a statement of your transaction, usually by return of post. If you've given us notice of withdrawal we will send your cheque in thirty days time, by first-class post, together with your transaction statement. No passbooks will be issued with this account.
	
	Should you need further transaction slips go to our Product Stationery Section. 
	
	
	
	
	Your move to a better rate
	 
	
	
	
	Direct 30 is only available via the postal service to our Principal Office and not through our branches. 'Apply Now' to open an account, simply complete the application form and return it to us together with your cheque. Alternatively call 01756 705 034* for an information pack.
	
	If you are new to the Skipton and have not already done so, please enclose documentary evidence to confirm your identity and your address (details of acceptable documents are given in the application form). This is not only a legal requirement, it will also help us to ensure prompt and efficient processing of your application. Current Money Laundering Regulations require that your details must be confirmed before any future transaction can take place. 
	
	
	
	
	Cancelling your investment
	 
	
	
	
	Following your initial investment, you will have 14 days in which to change your mind and request cancellation of your investment. Such requests must be in writing and must be received at the Society's Principal Office within 14 days of your initial investment. 
	
	
	
	
	Charitable foundation
	 
	
	
	
	Skipton Building Society has found that its usual high standard of service to its committed members has been disrupted by the actions of speculators. To avoid continued disruption of its business the Society requires new investors to agree to assign any potential windfall benefits they receive to a charity (currently the Skipton Building Society Charitable Foundation) in the event of a transfer of the Society's business to a bank or other company announced within 5 years of their accounts being opened. Existing shareholding members as at 29th February 2000 who continuously maintain a shareholding account are not affected by this change. Skipton Building Society still continues to welcome genuine customers who appreciate the long term value of investing with a Building Society. 
	
	
	
	
	
	Complaint procedure
	 
	
	
	
	If you are not happy with our service, we have an internal complaints procedure. You can view this in the Customer Service area of this site or ask for details of this procedure at a branch or from our Principal Office. Complaints we cannot settle may be refered to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Talking Financial Sense
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Terms and Conditions
	
	
- The minimum investment is £10,000 and the maximum £1 million. You will have 14 days in which to change your mind and request cancellation of your investment. Any such request must be sent in writing and must be received at the Society's Principal Office within 14 days of your initial investment.
	
- You may give notice to withdraw penalty-free four times (including closure) each calendar year, from 1st January to 31st December, without being penalised, by giving 30 days' written notice. Other withdrawals will be subject to a penalty. Please note that once the account has been put on notice, even if no funds are subsequently withdrawn, it will still count as one notice period. Notice is effective 30 days after receipt of a withdrawal request at the Society's Principal Office. You can withdraw £500 or more and a cheque will be dispatched to you by post. This may take 2 or 3 working days.
	
- Additional investments can be made any time subject to a minimum of £500.
	
- We guarantee that the rates of interest on this product will never fall more than 1% below the Bank of England base rate (1.25% for the monthly income option) ("the minimum guaranteed rates"). If the minimum guaranteed rates are in force, any new interest rates will become effective 14 days from the day after a subsequent Bank of England base rate change.
	
- You may not have more than one notice period running at any one time.
	
- Cheques received at the Society's Principal Office will be subject to a cheque clearance period of 7 working days.
	
- All transactions must be by cheque to and from the Society's Principal Office in Skipton. Withdrawal cheques cannot be made payable to a third party. They will be made payable only to the account holder(s).
	
- No transactions (including payment of monthly interest) will be allowed until you have completed and returned an application form together with satisfactory verification of identity.
	
- Transfers are allowed to and from other Skipton Building Society accounts that are held solely in your name, subject to the normal terms and conditions of the accounts, provided that a minimum of £500 is transferred at each transaction.
	
- Should your balance fall below the minimum operating balance of £10,000 the account will be closed and the balance, with any interest due, will be returned to you.
	
- Interest rates are variable.
	
- (i.) For the annual interest option interest will be accrued on a daily basis and will be added to your account or paid into a bank account at midnight 31st March each year.
	
	(ii.) For the monthly interest option interest will be accrued on a daily basis and will be paid into a bank account on the first working day of each month (except January when interest will be paid on the second working day).
	
- Interest will be paid or credited after deduction of income tax at the lower rate of 20% or, subject to the required certification, gross. Individuals with taxable interest in the starting rate band of 10% who are due to pay less tax than the amount deducted from their interest can also claim such a repayment. Individuals whose interest falls within the basic rate band will have no more tax to pay on their interest, as the tax deducted from it at 20% will satisfy the tax due. Individuals who are higher rate taxpayers will have to pay the extra tax due on their interest (the difference between tax deducted at 20% and the higher rate of 40%).
	
- Skipton Building Society is a participant of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits in a society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of shares and deposits are not covered, for example deferred shares - permanent interest bearing shares. Although most shares and deposits are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society. 
	
- Direct 30 is a share account which confers membership rights.
	
- This account is only available to individuals in the UK.
	
- This account is subject to our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions and the Rules of the Society. These contain important information about the account and should be read as soon as you receive them. Copies can be obtained from any branch or Principal Office.
	
- The terms of the Charitable Assignment arrangements are set out in the Investment Application forms as well as our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions leaflet. There are certain categories of investor who will be exempt from assigning any future windfall rights. A list of these categories is available from any branch or our Principal Office.
	
	
	AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the
interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year.
	
	*To help maintain quality, some telephone calls with customers may be from time to time.
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
