
	
	
	
	Chelsea Building Society
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Direct Access Via Phone and Link Cash Machines 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our current rates of interest
 Chelsea Call-Direct Advantage Account
 Easy access - with your Chelsea Card
 Easy access - with secure telephone withdrawals
 How much can I invest?
 Apply Now
 
 
OUR CURRENT RATES 
 OF INTEREST 
 (with effect from 10th December 2001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance 
 
 
 
 Gross p.a.&#134;/AER*
 
 
 Net p.a.&#134;
 
 
 
 
 
 £2,500 Plus 
 
 
 
 
 4.00% 
 
 
 3.20% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest will not be paid during a period when the account balance falls 
 below £2,500. 
 
	 Chelsea 
 Call-Direct Advantage Account
 A simple and flexible way to control your finances by telephone and post.
 
Attractive variable interest rate - 4.00% gross p.a.&#134;/AER* 
 (currently equivalent to 3.20% net p.a.&#134;).
 
Guaranteed interest rate - the gross p.a.&#134;/AER* 
 is guaranteed to fall no lower than 0.25% below the Bank of England base 
 rate until 1st October 2003. 
 
 Direct access to your money by phone and the LINK cash machine network.
 
Interest is paid annually on 1st June.
 
Interest can be added to your account (where it immediately starts earning 
 more interest), transferred to another Chelsea account or to your bank 
 account.
 
	 Easy access - with your 
 Chelsea Card
 You can use your Chelsea Card to withdraw up to £200 per day from 
 any of the thousands of LINK cash machines in the UK (depending on your 
 account balance).
 
We make no charges for ATM transactions at other organisations' cash 
 machines.
 
You can also use your Chelsea Card on some machines to check your account 
 balance.
 
Your PIN number will be issued once we have processed your application, 
 however, you can change your PIN at any ATM owned by the Chelsea or those 
 owned by the following financial institutions:
 
 
- Derbyshire Building Society
 
- Dunfermaline Building Society
 
- Northern Rock plc
 
 
	 Easy access - with secure 
 telephone withdrawals
 You can transfer money into a nominated account simply by telephoning 
 us.
 
The minimum withdrawal using this service is £250 and it 
 usually takes three working days for the money to reach your nominated 
 account.
 
When you open your account, we ask you to nominate a bank or building 
 society account (on which you must be named) to receive the funds 
 you instruct us to transfer using your telephone. 
 
We will also ask you to provide us with three passwords:
 
 
- A name memorable to you
 
- A place memorable to you
 
- A memorable word
 
 
Then, when you call the Call-Direct withdrawal line - 0845 601 2710 
 (Monday-Thursday 8am-8pm, Friday 8am-6pm and Saturday 9am-5pm) - you will 
 be asked for a combination of the letters from your passwords to authorise 
 the withdrawal.
 
For security reasons, if you fail to provide the correct combination 
 to match our records, the transaction will not be authorised. Following 
 three consecutive failures, a stop will be placed on your account, and 
 we will write to you requesting a new set of passwords. In the interim, 
 we will permit withdrawal requests on receipt of your original written 
 instructions.
 
On joint accounts, the teleauthorisation service is only available provided 
 your instructions are for either party to authorise transactions - see 
 application form.
 
 
	 How much can I invest? 
 You will need a minimum of £2,500, and can only invest your own 
 money (you cannot invest money on behalf of someone else).
 
You can add to your investment, by post, up to a maximum of £250,000 
 per investor (provided that your total investment in this and all other 
 Chelsea accounts does not exceed £1 million). 
 
 
Apply now
 
 
*The Annual Equivalent Rate (AER) illustrates what 
 the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added to the account 
 each year. 
 
&#134; Subject to the required Inland Revenue certification 
 interest will be paid gross. In the absence of valid certification and 
 for those investors not ordinarily resident in the UK for tax purposes, 
 interest will be paid net at the applicable rate of tax, currently 20%. 
 Some or all of this tax may be reclaimed from the Inland Revenue by non-taxpayers. 
 The net figures quoted are illustrative assuming liability at the applicable 
 tax level of 20%.
 
The investments and savings information published on 
 this website should be read in conjunction with the Society's most recent 
 Summary Financial Statement to be found in the section headed "About 
 Chelsea" and the Information for Chelsea Investors section.
 
Chelsea Building Society subscribes to the Banking 
 Code, a copy of which is available on request. 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
