
Terms and Conditions General page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Small
 Print 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Mortgage and Kensington 
 Mortgage Company
 
Voluntary Code of 
 Mortgage Lending Practice
 The Council of Mortgage Lenders&#146; 
 Mortgage Code provides the minimum standards of service that borrowers can 
 expect from all mortgage lenders who subscribe to the Code. Kensington 
 Mortgage Company subscribes to this Code. Click here for full details of the
 Code
 
Compliance with the 
 Code
Compliance 
 with the Code is monitored by the Independent Review Body. In addition, 
 any mortgage lender which subscribes to the Code must be a member of a 
 recognised complaints scheme. Kensington Mortgage Company belongs to the Council of 
 Mortgage Lenders' Arbitration Scheme.
 
Information to help 
 you choose
Please take the time to read the following 
 important information which will assist you in making the right choice for 
 your own particular circumstances and will help you understand the 
 products available from Kensington Mortgage Company. You should read all 
 contract documentation carefully and obtain independent legal or other 
 advice (for example, from a Citizens Advice Bureau or Money Advice Centre 
 or Law Centre) before entering into any agreement.
 
You and your 
 intermediary
Loans provided by Kensington Mortgage Company may 
 be negotiated through a mortgage intermediary, eg a mortgage broker, 
 financial adviser, solicitor, estate agent or accountant. The intermediary 
 may charge you a fee as part of that arrangement. This fee is not a 
 condition of a Kensington Mortgage Company loan.
 
We only recognise 
 intermediaries registered under the Mortgage Code Register of 
 Intermediaries.
 
We will usually pay 
 commission to your mortgage intermediary. Your intermediary will discuss 
 this with you when discussing your mortgage application and will tell you 
 in writing the amount of any payment received from us, the purpose of the 
 payment, the basis of calculation and when and how it will be 
 payable.
 
Repayment 
 methods
With 
 most of our products we offer two different ways to repay the loan:
 
Capital 
 repayment - monthly payments cover interest and capital and by 
 the end of the term, provided all payments are made on time, the loan will 
 be repaid.
 
Interest 
 only &#150; If you have an
 interest-only mortgage it is your responsibility to ensure that an
 appropriate repayment vehicle is in place and to check regularly that it
 is on target to repay the amount of your mortgage. You must also ensure
 that payments for endowment or pension policies and other investment
 plans, such as individual savings accounts, are kept up to date and
 continue to provide you with the level of cover required.
 
 
If you have an
 endowment policy, the Association of British Insurers and its members have
 agreed a Code of Practice to ensure formal reviews of endowment mortgage
 policies are carried out regularly. Under the ABI Code, insurers will tell
 you if a shortfall is likely to arise where the life policy was bought
 with the intention of paying off all or part of the mortgage.
 
If
 you have a mortgage and/or repayment vehicle which will continue beyond
 your retirement date, it is important that you ensure that you will be
 able to continue to meet your regular payments.
 
Loan term - 
 Repayment periods range from 5 to 30 years. There is no maximum age 
 provided you can make your payments each month.
 
Variable and fixed 
 interest rates
 Interest rates are either 
 variable or fixed for a period of time (the rate at which and the period 
 for which it is fixed will be set out in the offer letter). When a fixed 
 rate term expires the interest rate is variable.
 
Variable interest 
 rates 
 
 
 
 
 
 &#150; Our variable 
 interest rates are based either on LIBOR (the 3 month London Inter-bank
 Offered Rate) plus an additional percentage depending on the product (for
 loans in Scotland), or on the Kensington Variable Rate, which is linked to LIBOR
 plus an additional percentage depending on the
 product. The offer 
 letter will state which rate applies.
 
LIBOR changes daily with 
 market movements. In order to combine the advantage of a mortgage 
 rate that closely follows movements in market rates with the necessary 
 stability for financial planning, we will normally vary the Kensington 
 Variable Rate every 3 months. We do, however, reserve the 
 right to change this more often if we choose.
 
Part Capital 
 Repayments
If 
 you repay part of the loan early, the interest charged on your account is 
 adjusted with immediate effect and your payment reduced on the next 
 payment date.
 
Buildings 
 insurance - Properties must be insured for their full reinstatement 
 value. Cover can be arranged through our block policy. If you 
 wish, the policy can also protect your contents. Information is contained 
 in the application form and a quote with further details will be included
 with the offer letter.
 
Life insurance &#150; We recommend that you ensure that you have adequate 
 life insurance cover to protect your family.
 
Accident,
 sickness 
 and unemployment insurance &#150; We recommend that you ensure your 
 mortgage payments are protected by accident, sickness and unemployment 
 insurance. Cover can be arranged through our block policy. Information is 
 contained in the application form and a quote with further details will be 
 included with the offer letter.
 
Other 
 fees and charges
 
Application
 fee - An application fee to cover the valuation fee and the cost 
 of processing your application is payable by you when you apply for a 
 loan. Your mortgage intermediary will advise you of the amount of the 
 fee.
 Arrangement 
 fee - An arrangement fee is payable when we complete the loan. 
 The amount of the fee will be included in any 
 illustration. Solicitor's 
 costs &#150; We will also instruct your solicitor to act for us 
 provided the firm has two or more partners. If this is not the case, we 
 will instruct our own solicitors to act for us. In either case the 
 solicitor&#146;s costs will be payable by you.Early Redemption 
 Fees - If you repay your loan within the first three years we will charge interest to 
 the end of the month in which the loan is repaid and an additional sum 
 equivalent to a percentage of the amount redeemed depending on the type of 
 loan and how long it has been in existence. Full details of the charge 
 applicable to your loan will be set out in the offer 
 letter. If you repay your loan after three years we will charge interest
 to the end of the month in which the loan is repaid.Other 
 charges - A full list of all other charges covering the operation 
 and repayment of your mortgage account will be sent to you with
 the offer letter.
 
 YOUR HOME IS AT 
 RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN 
 SECURED ON IT
 
 
 
 
 
© 2002 Kensington Group plc
 
 
