
Welcome to Newcastle Building Society - SIPPs
 
 
 
The Newcastle 
 Building Society SIPP - a new type of pension scheme that puts you in 
 control. 
 
 
 
 
We all know the importance of having a pension and we'd all like 
 to think we have made adequate financial provision for what we hope 
 will be a long and enjoyable retirement.
 
The Newcastle Building Society Self Invested Personal Pension is 
 a new type of pension scheme that puts you in control and is offered 
 by the Society in conjunction with IPS Actuarial Services, a long 
 established and well respected firm of pension consultants and actuaries.
 
The Newcastle SIPP offers the following key features: 
 
 
- Excellent rate of interest 
 for cash deposits held in the Newcastle Pension Plus Account - 
 3.65% AER, or 3.44% AER if balance under £50,000
 
- Competitive charges - Initial 
 set-up fee £235, annual fee £350 (inclusive of VAT)
 
- Gives policyholders complete control 
 over their investments - ability to invest in all assets 
 allowed by the Inland Revenue
 
- Specialist expertise and personal service 
 of IPS Actuarial Services 
 
- Efficient administration 
 due to specially developed systems
 
- The peace of mind that your 
 pension provision is in safe hands - yours! 
 
 
Advantages of investing in a SIPP: 
 
 
- Maximum flexibility of investments - a wide range of investments 
 is permitted, including commercial property, stocks and shares 
 and authorised unit trusts.
 
- Maximum control over investments - policyholders can make investment 
 decisions themselves, or appoint an IFA or investment manager.
 
- Maximum control over payment of benefits - policyholders can 
 defer annuity purchase until 75 and 'phase' retirement by drawing 
 down pension benefits a little at a time while leaving the rest 
 of the fund invested.
 
- Maximum control over death benefits - policyholders can pass 
 on savings to heir on death until annuity is purchased. 
 
- Can consolidate several different pension plans under one wrapper.
 
 
Click on the links below to find out more:
 
 
- What is a SIPP ? 
 
- Am I eligible for a SIPP ? 
 
- How much could I invest in a SIPP ? 
 
- What assets can I hold in my SIPP ? 
 
- How will my SIPP assets be managed ? 
 
- How are benefits paid from a SIPP ? 
 
- What will happen in the event of my death ? 
 
- Who provides the Newcastle Building Society 
 SIPP ? 
 
- Who administers the NBS SIPP ?
 
- What does it cost? 
 
- What should I do next ? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is a SIPP? 
 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIPPs are intended to provide individuals with more control over their 
 pension arrangements. They can offer peace of mind during uncertain economic 
 times and are a cost effective, tax efficient solution to a very real 
 problem. Today's low annuity rates will affect a great number of people 
 as they approach their retirement. A fund of £100,000 will only 
 buy an annuity worth approximately £7,500 per annum for a man aged 
 60*. And, if he were to die shortly after buying his annuity, in the majority 
 of cases nothing will be paid to his estate, leaving very little to show 
 for a lifetime's saving. 
 
 
 
For many people a SIPP will provide a potential solution, as it allows 
 the individual the freedom to choose where their funds are invested while 
 enabling them to draw down a regular pension from the investment profits 
 and capital, leaving the balance of the funds to pass on to a next of 
 kin. 
 
 
 
*Source: The Annuity Bureau Limited as at 1Dec 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 Am I eligible for a SIPP? 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
Yes, even if you have other pension arrangements in place. However, if 
 you are already a member of a company pension scheme to which your employer 
 contributes, it would probably not be in your interest to withdraw from 
 the scheme in order to open a SIPP. 
 
 
 
If you are currently in work but have chosen to make your own pension 
 provision rather than take up your company scheme, then you should consider 
 the benefits of transferring your personal pension into a SIPP. If you've 
 already retired but have not yet purchased an annuity, then you should 
 also look at the advantages of a SIPP. The benefits of such a scheme could 
 be significant. 
 
 
 
If you are unsure about which pension is best for you, you are advised 
 to seek independent financial advice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 How much could I invest 
 in a SIPP? 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
Unlike many personal pension schemes, you would be under no commitment 
 to make regular contributions. The maximum contribution that can be made 
 to a SIPP is governed by your age and by parameters laid down by the Inland 
 Revenue. For example at present, anyone aged 51 to 55 can invest 30% of 
 their "net relevant earnings", while it's 35% for people aged 56 to 60 
 and 40% for anyone over 61. For people in employment, their net relevant 
 earnings are made up of salary, bonuses and taxable P11D benefits. For 
 the self-employed, it is their net earnings less trading expenses. 
 
 
 
Also, with a SIPP you can consolidate any existing pension arrangements 
 you might have by transferring the funds held into the new plan. 
 
Any contributions made to a SIPP qualify for income tax relief at your 
 highest rate of tax. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What assets can I hold 
 in my SIPP? 
 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You can hold a wide variety of assets in your SIPP, including: 
 
 
- Bank and Building Society cash deposits 
 
- Government Securities 
 
- Authorised unit trusts 
 
- Shares in London Stock Exchange listed companies 
 
- Shares quoted on a recognised overseas stock market 
 
- Quoted debentures and loan stocks 
 
- Commercial property, with or without a mortgage 
 
 The following cannot be held in a SIPP: 
 
 
- Residential property
 
- Foreign currency 
 
- Loans
 
- Unquoted or private company shares 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How will my SIPP assets 
 be managed? 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
That is entirely up to you. You might decide you want to take total control 
 and make your own investment decisions. Alternatively, you might want 
 to take advice before making decisions or you may even decide to delegate 
 responsibility to an investment manager. The choice is yours. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How are benefits paid 
 from a SIPP? 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the age of 50, you can withdraw up to 25% of the accumulated 
 fund as a tax free lump sum. The remainder will then be used to 
 provide a pension until the age of 75, when under current legislation 
 an annuity must be purchased. 
 
 
 
A SIPP also provides the option of 'phasing retirement'. The assets 
 of the SIPP are split into segments and the SIPP member can elect 
 to 'cash' a number of units each year. In this way, any funds remaining 
 in the SIPP continue to grow in a tax free environment, while the 
 SIPP holder can delay the purchase of an annuity in the hope that 
 rates will improve. The benefits of phased retirement make a SIPP 
 a very attractive proposition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What will happen in the 
 event of my death? 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
The balance of the SIPP fund is available to provide a pension for your 
 widow(er) or a lump sum to a nominated beneficiary, without them having 
 to pay inheritance tax. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Who provides the Newcastle 
 Building Society SIPP? 
 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
The Provider of the SIPP is Newcastle Building Society, which is the 
 12th largest building society in the UK, with assets of more than £2.6 
 billion. Any cash deposits in your SIPP will be held in a Newcastle Building 
 Society Pension Plus client account. To check the rates click 
 here. 
 " border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
 
 
 
 Who administers 
 the NBS SIPP? 
 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
The administration of the SIPP is provided by IPS Actuarial Services 
 Ltd, a long established and well respected firm of pension consultants 
 and actuaries. 
 " border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
 
 What does it cost? 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
The initial set up fee is £235 and the current annual fee is £350 
 (both are inclusive of VAT at 17.5%) and these do not vary according to 
 the size of the SIPP fund. The fees cover the setting up of your SIPP, 
 all dealings with the Inland Revenue, appointment of trustees and the 
 annual reclamation of income tax on contributions. There may be additional 
 charges for other services provided and details of these are available 
 on request. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What should I do next? 
 Back to top 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you would like to receive an information pack for the Newcastle Self 
 Invested Personal Pension simply contact us on 0845 
 606 5522 or click 
 here and let us call you back. Alternatively, click 
 here and complete our e-mail request form and we will send an 
 information pack to you. 
 
 
 
 
Should you have any product queries regarding SIPPs then please call 
 IPS on 0117 929 0941. Lines are open 
 Monday to Friday during office hours. 
 
 
 
 
Important Notes 
 
 
 
 
The Newcastle Building Society SIPP is offered without pensions advice. 
 A SIPP may not be suitable for all investors. If in doubt you should 
 consult an independent financial advisor. 
 
 
 
IPS Actuarial Services Limited is a Scheme Administrator and is responsible 
 for the maintenance and running of the scheme. 
 
 
 
The levels of and bases of taxation can change. The value to an investor 
 of any tax benefits will depend on that investor's tax position. Investors 
 should consult their own tax advisers in order to understand any applicable 
 tax consequence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
