
Skipton Building Society - Mortgages and Investments
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	tariff of charges
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Welcome
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	The Skipton Service
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Interest Rates
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Submiting your Application
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Applying for your Mortgage
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Buy To Let Mortgage
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Commercial Mortgage Tariff of Charges
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Branch Locator
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Application Forms
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Calculator
	 	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	INTRODUCTION 
	
	
	
 
 	Skipton Building Society would like you to be fully aware of the charges which we will make for a number of services and facilities relating to our mortgage products. The following is a list of charges which will be incurred by borrowers in different situations. These charges may be revised from time to time under the terms of our Mortgage Deed. If you need further help in understanding any of the following, please contact your local branch or Customer Services on: 
	
	01756 705030
	
 	
	
	
	MORTGAGE RELATED CHARGES 
	
	
	
	
	Unless otherwise stated, interest will be charged on any fee or charge debited to the mortgage account from the date it is debited. Borrowers may avoid such interest charges by paying the appropriate fee or charges to the Society before the account is debited with the charge. 
	
	
	
	
	1. Chaps Fee (Telegraphic Transfer of Money)
£25.00 
	
	
	
	This fee is payable when any loan is transferred directly to your legal representative's bank, prior to the completion of the mortgage by him or her. If the fee is not paid directly to the Society it is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	
	2. Property Insured by the Borrower
£50.00 
	
	
	
	This charge is to cover insuring the contingency risk of the Society suffering financial loss where buildings insurance is effected by you and is not arranged through the Society's agency. The charge includes the additional administrative costs of arranging this. The fee is debited to your mortgage account . 
	
	
	
	3. Mortgage Reference Fee for current and former Borrowers.
£45.00 (inc. VAT) 
	
	
	 
	This fee covers the cost of completing a mortgage reference request received from either another lender to whom you propose remortgaging or if you are buying a new home, another lender with whom you propose taking out a new mortgage. The fee is paid directly to the Society. 
	
	
	
	4. Deeds Production Fee
£35.00 
	
	
 	This fee is charged when the Title Deeds to your property are requested by, and sent to, your legal representative. The fee is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	5. Second Mortgage Questionnaire
£47.00 (inc. VAT) 
	
	
	This fee is charged when the Society provides standard title and accounting information to a proposed second mortgagee. If the fee is not paid directly to the Society, it is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	
	6. Additional Second Mortgage Questionnaire
£5.00 (inc. VAT) 
	
	
	This fee is charged when the Society provides non-standard or additional title and accounting information to a proposed second mortgagee. If the fee is not paid directly to the Society, it is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	7. Breakdown of Account Statements
£20.00 
	
	
	This fee covers the administration costs involved in producing detailed information related to a mortgage account over and above that contained in your Annual Statement(s) of Account. The fee is payable directly to the Society. 
	
	
	
	8. Release of Partial Security
£100.00 
	
	
	This fee covers the sealing and vacating of the Deed of Release and administration costs. If the fee is not paid directly to the Society, it is debited to your mortgage account. The same fee is charged in respect of the following types of transaction: 
	
	
- Deed of Exchange 
	
- Deed of Variation eg: variation of a lease 
	
- Deed of Grant eg: for rights of way 
	
- Deed of Easement 
	
- Local Authority Planning Agreement 
	
	Where the Society requests an up to date valuation of the property prior to considering any Release of Partial Security or any other transaction of the type described above, a Valuation Fee will be payable directly to the Society in addition to the Release of Partial Security Fee. 
	
	
	
	9. Copy Extracts from Title Deeds
£15.00 (inc. VAT) 
	
	
	
	This fee covers the cost of supplying copy extracts requested. The fee is paid directly to the Society. 
	
	
	
	10. Ground Rent and Service Charges
£35.00 
	
	
	
 	In the case of leasehold properties this fee is payable when the Society has paid ground rent or service charges to your landlord in order to protect the security on which the loan is based. The fee is debited to the mortgage account together with the amount of rent or service charge paid by the Society. 
	
	
	
	11. Transfer Subject to Mortgage
£250.00 
	
	
	This fee includes the Deeds Production Fee for producing the Title Deeds to your legal representative, the sealing of the Transfer Deed, and all the necessary documentation and administration. This fee will be payable directly to the Society. The Society will instruct a legal representative to act for it in this transaction. The legal representatives fees and charges may vary according to the transaction and the property mortgaged and will be payable by you. This fee maybe payable directly to the Society or the legal representative depending on the circumstances. 
	
	
	
	12. Lettings (Other than Buy to Let)
£100.00 
	
	
	This fee is payable when you make an application to the Society for consent to let the mortgaged property. The fee is paid directly to the Society. 
	
	To reflect the additional risk of having tenants in occupation of the mortgaged property, the Society will also increase the rate of interest payable on your mortgage. The rate of interest payable under the mortgage will be increased from the date the tenancy starts, depending on the percentage of the loan to current valuation. 
	
	For authorised lettings, if the percentage of the loan to valuation is 80% or less, the increase will be 0.25%; if it is above 80% the increase will be 0.50%. If an unauthorised tenancy is created, the interest rate will increase by 1.25% for loans of 80% of the current valuation or less, and 1.50% for loans above 80% until the breach of your mortgage conditions is rectified. 
	
	
	
	13. Redemption Sealing Fee
£45.00 
	
	
 
	This fee covers the preparation of the documents for discharging the mortgage and includes the affixing of the Society's Seal, the signing of the document on behalf of the Board of Directors and updating the Society's records. This fee is debited to your mortgage account but will not incur interest unless the property is sold by us as mortgagee in possession and a shortfall debt remains outstanding. 
	
	
	
	14. Early Redemption Fee or Interest 
	
	
	
	The Society will charge a fee or an amount of additional interest if you wish to redeem your mortgage before the time agreed. The Society's general practice in charging early redemption fees or additional interest varies according to the type of mortgage product selected. You should refer to the relevant marketing leaflets for further information. Specific details of the early redemption fee or interest payable will be provided in the Offer of Advance. This fee is debited to your mortgage account but will not incur interest unless the property is sold by us as mortgagee in possession and a shortfall debt remains outstanding. 
	
	
	
	15. Capital Repayment Fee 
	
	
	In the case of certain mortgage products for example Cashback, Fixed Rate, Capped Rate and Discounted mortgage products, if an additional payment over and above the required monthly payment is made before the time agreed and within a specified period after the mortgage has completed, the Society may charge a capital repayment fee of up to 5% of the additional payment. You should refer to the relevant marketing leaflets for further information. Specific details of the Capital Repayment Fee will be provided in the Offer of Advance.This fee is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	16. Returned Payments
£15.00 
	
	
 
	An administration charge will be debited to your mortgage account if a payment is returned unpaid. 
	
	
	
	17. Duplicate Mortgage Statements
£12.50 (inc. VAT) or £25.00 (inc. VAT) 
	
	
 
	The £12.50 fee covers the cost of producing up to a maximum of 5 duplicate previous years' statements, and £25.00 for 6 or more. The relevant fee is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	18. Accounts in Arrears - Fines 
	
	
	Fines will be charged by the Society in respect of monies due but unpaid to the Society at a rate not exceeding 2% per month of the amount in arrears (fractional parts of £1.00 being ignored). Fines which accrue in any year between 1st January and 31st December are debited to your mortgage account on 31st January in the following year. 
	
	eg: fines accrued in 1999 will be debited on 31st January 2000 and will be interest bearing from 1st February 2000 unless paid directly to the Society before this date. 
	
	
	
	19. Accounts in Arrears and Other Defaults 
	
	
 
	If you are in breach of the terms of your mortgage the Society may take action to enforce the terms of the mortgage against you and recover from you any monies due from you but unpaid. The fee payable by you in such circumstances is dependent upon the nature and extent of the proceedings the Society has to take and will include any charge made by the Society's Solicitor or agent acting on the Society's behalf. 
	
	
	
	20. Application Fee 
	
	
 
	This fee is dependent upon the type of mortgage product chosen and, if relevant, is payable at the time a mortgage application is made. 
	
	
	
	21. Re-Inspection Fee
From £40.00 dependent on property 
	
	
 
	The fee covers the charge made by an independent valuer to prepare a report and valuation of the property for the Society in order to enable the release of a retention or stage payment. The fee is paid directly to the Society. 
	
	
	
	22. Valuation Fee
From £140.00 dependent on property 
	
	
 
	This fee is payable directly to the Society at the time a mortgage application is made. The amount charged relates to the price/value of the property. The fee is the charge made by an independent valuer to prepare a report and valuation of the proposed security for the Society. 
	
	
	
	23. Insufficient Funds to Meet the Mortgage Payment by Direct Debit
£15.00 
	
	
 
	This charge covers the administration costs we incur when your bank declines a request for payment due to insufficient funds in your bank account. The fee is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	24. Further Advance
£250.00 
	
	
 
	This fee covers the administration charge. Legal costs of £250 will normally also be required along with an additional charge for a valuation. These will be payable direct to the Society. 
	
	
	
	25. Conversion of Repayment Type
£50.00 
	
	
 
	This fee is charged when you change your existing capital and interest mortgage to an interest only mortgage, or vice versa. The fee is debited to your mortgage account. These will also be payable direct to the Society. 
	
	
	
	26. Legal Fees 
	
	
 
	The Society will instruct a legal representative to act for it to complete the legal documentation for the mortgage. The legal representative' s fees and charges will vary according to the nature of the transaction and the property mortgaged and will be payable directly to him or her by you. 
	
	
	
	27. Substitution of Life Assurance Policies
£50.00 
	
	
 
	This fee covers the cost of replacing the existing policy details with details of the new policy, and is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	28. Duplicate MIRAS 5 Certificates
£5.90 (inc. VAT) 
	
	
 
	This fee covers the cost of producing up to a maximum of 5 duplicate certificates, provided that all the statements are requested at the same time. Subsequent requests will be subject to a further fee. This fee is debited to your mortgage account. 
	
	
	
	29. Records
£10.00 
	
	
	We will comply with the Data Protection Act at all times when obtaining and processing data about you. You are entitled, by paying a fee, to a right of access to information we hold about you on our computer and other records. This information will be provided in accordance with the Act prevailing at the time of your request. This fee is payable directly to the Society. 
 	
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
 
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
