	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	All products and services
	Home
	Mortgages
	Savings
	Life Insurance
	
	Travel Money
	Money Transfer
	Contact Us
	Your Society
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	
	
	Contact Us...	by:	Telephone	Branch Locator	Contact Form	Survey	 	
	 	
	
	 	 	
	 	
	Choose a branch : 	Bearwood	Birmingham City Centre	Blackheath	Bristol, Longwell Green	Bromsgrove	Cardiff Mortgage Bureau	Chester	Cotteridge	Coventry	Cradley Heath	Dudley	Erdington	Great Barr	Great Bridge	Handsworth	Harborne	Kidderminster	Kingstanding	Kingswinford	Knighton	Knowle	Leicester	Manchester Mortgage Bureau	Merry Hill	Moseley	Newtown	Northfield	Nottingham Mortgage Bureau	Oldbury	Oswestry	Perry Barr	Redditch	Sedgley	Shirley	Shrewsbury	Smethwick, Cape Hill	Smethwick, High Street	Stone Cross	Stourbridge	Sutton Coldfield	Swindon Mortgage Bureau	Tipton	Walsall	Washwood Heath	Wednesbury	Welshpool	West Bromwich, 321 High St	West Bromwich, Dartmouth Square	West Bromwich, Principal Office	Whitchurch	Wolverhampton	
	 	
	 	Manchester Mortgage Bureau
	
	Suite 3a
Portland Tower
Portland Street
Manchester
	M1 3LF(note Mortgage Bureaux specialise in the sales of mortgages and do not offer a counter service)
	 	 	Find a different branch? 
or
	Go back to this region.. 	
	 	Tel: 0161 236 3032
	Fax: 0161 237 5448
	 	 	 	= the street the branch is located on. 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
Copyright © 1988&#150;1999 Microsoft Corp. and/or its suppliers. All rights reserved. http://www.microsoft.com/uk/MapPoint	©1998 NavTech B.V. All rights reserved. Based on Ordnance Survey electronic data; used with permission of the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office. ©Crown Copyright 1997.
	 
	 	
	 	 	 	 	
	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
The Society represents only the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for Life Assurance, Pensions and Investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of the Society and Norwich Union. These pages are only for the use of those persons who are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK. The Society accepts no responsibility for the content held on other websites to which you may be directed. The society is a member of the Financial Services Ombudsman and is a signatory to the Banking Code and the Mortgage Code. To obtain copies of these codes, please click on the relevant link. Copies are also available in our branches.
	
Worried about security? Then view our security and privacy policy. 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	© West Bromwich Building Society 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
