
BONUS 90 ACCOUNT Terms & Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum Investment
 
 
 
- £1,000 (anniversary
 interest), £2,500 (monthly interest). 
 
 
Additional Investments
 
 
 
- You can add to
 your account at any time
 
 
Bonus
 
 
- The 1.00% gross
 bonus (0.80% net) is paid annually providing no more than one withdrawal
 is made during the twelve months before each anniversary (any bonus
 is paid in proportion to the time invested).
 
 
 Interest
 
 
 
- Interest is paid
 on the anniversary of the account or paid monthly to another Furness
 account, your bank account (interest paid in this way does not count
 as a withdrawal for the purpose of qualifying for the annual bonus)
 or added to your Bonus 90 Account.
 
 
 
- If the balance
 in your account falls below £2,500 the monthly income option does
 not apply and interest is paid or added to your account on the anniversary.
 
 
 
- Interest added
 to the account can be withdrawn without loss of bonus within six months
 from the date the interest is added to the account. 
 
 
Withdrawals 
 
 
- You are required
 to give 90 days notice of withdrawal and provided such notice is given,
 withdrawals may be made without loss of interest.
	
 
 
- Notice of withdrawal
 may only be given in respect of cleared funds held in the account
 on the date notice is given. If 90 days notice is not given, withdrawals
 will be subject to a penalty amounting to 90 days interest. This will
 be calculated using the gross rate of interest payable on the account
 on the day the withdrawal is made.
 
 
 
 
- The penalty
 will be charged against accrued interest. If the penalty is higher
 than the accrued interest, it will be applied against the remaining
 capital balance in the account with any remainder being deducted from
 the amount withdrawn.
 
 
- If the notice
 period ends on a weekend or Bank Holiday, the notice will be deemed
 to end on the last working day before the weekend or Bank Holiday,
 and the amount to be withdrawn will therefore be available from that
 date.
 
 
 
- Notice withdrawals
 must be for specified amounts unless closure is requested. Notice
 may only be given to withdraw cleared funds not subject to an existing
 notice of withdrawal (ie. notices may not run concurrently against
 the same funds).
 
 
Charitable
 Assignment Scheme
 
 
- All new savers
 opening share accounts must sign a declaration agreeing to assign
 any future windfall rights to the Charities Aid Foundation. For more
 information please visit the Mutuality page of our web site or telephone
 Furness Direct on 0800 22 05 68. 
 
 
Important
 Note
 
 
- If the balance
 of the account falls below £1000 the Paid Up Share Access rate
 applies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
