
Tessa ISA
 
 
 
 
savers 
 | Tessa 
 ISA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A TESSA only ISA 
 (Individual Savings Account), which offers tax-free savings at our highest 
 rate of interest. Exclusively for existing Newbury Building Society 
 members (at 31 December 2000).
 
 
 
 
 
TESSA only ISA, 
 which offers tax free savings for the capital proceeds of a matured 
 TESSA/Follow Up TESSA. 
 
 Minimum opening 
 balance of only £50. 
 
 One interest rate 
 for all levels of investment - see quickview interest rates. 
 
*Instant access 
 with no loss of interest. 
 
back 
 to menu
 
 
*Instant access 
 to savings. 'Instant access' means that notice is not required. Normal 
 cash withdrawal and cheque withdrawal and clearance conditions apply 
 - see our current Investment Conditions. 
 
 
 Withdrawals have 
 no effect on subscriptions limits. Once you have invested the full capital 
 proceeds of your TESSA/Follow Up TESSA (maximum £9,000), you cannot 
 make additional investments, regardless of withdrawals made during the 
 tax year or the balance of the account. 
 
The favourable tax 
 treatment offered by the Government's ISA scheme may not continue indefinitely. 
 
 
back 
 to menu
 
 
There are 
 no charges for the normal operation of the account. We do make a limited 
 number of charges for extraordinary transactions, such as special clearance 
 on personal cheques. See our administration 
 fees for details. 
 
Back 
 to menu
 
 The minimum 
 opening balance and holding of this account is £50. If the balance of 
 the account falls below this level, the interest rate paid will fall 
 to a nominal amount until the balance is restored. 
 
TESSA ISA is only 
 available to existing members of Newbury Building Society, registered 
 on 31 December 2000. 
 
 An ISA is an account 
 for a sole investor, joint accounts are not permitted. You must be at 
 least 18 years old to invest in a TESSA-only ISA. 
 
The Government has 
 issued CAT standards for ISAs. These refer to ISAs with reasonable charges, 
 easy access and fair terms. As we have a local operating area for savings 
 accounts and the TESSA ISA is available only to those who were members 
 of the Society at 31 December 2000, our TESSA ISA is not CAT standard. 
 
 
You may not subscribe 
 (make any investments) to a mini cash ISA (our Notice ISA) and a maxi 
 ISA in the same tax year. In addition to a mini cash ISA or a maxi ISA 
 you can invest in a TESSA only ISA (our TESSA ISA), which is specifically 
 designed for the capital proceeds of a maturing TESSA/Follow Up TESSA. 
 
 Interest rates 
 are variable. Interest is calculated daily and paid annually on 31 October. 
 You do not have to pay income tax on the interest paid into your ISA, 
 provided all the terms and conditions have been complied with. 
 
Interest is normally 
 paid into your account. We can arrange for interest to be paid into 
 another Newbury Building Society account or your bank account. 
 
 We accept applications 
 to open accounts from savers in our local operating area. If you are 
 unsure as to whether you qualify, please use our savings 
 wizard to check. 
 
 An application 
 form must be completed to open an account; please contact us if you 
 would like one. Applications can be made by post but we prefer you to 
 open your account at one of our branches so you only need to supply two forms of identification 
 (one to confirm address, one to confirm name and signature) instead 
 of four (two of each of the above). Original documentation is required 
 in both cases. 
 
 This account is 
 a share account, which means when you open it you will become a member 
 of Newbury Building Society and will have a direct say in how the Society 
 is run. New members are required to assign windfall benefits to the 
 Charities Aid Foundation for a period of five years. See our Charitable 
 Assignment Note for further details. 
 
Please read our 
 General Terms & Conditions relating 
 to our TESSA ISA and our Investment Conditions 
 and administration fees, 
 which contain important information relating to our savings accounts. 
 
 KEEP IN TOUCH! 
 
 
Your account passbook 
 keeps a running balance of your savings. The passbook can be updated 
 at any time by your branch, which will be important to you if you have 
 a regular automated payment to your account. 
 
 Each year, if your 
 account balance is £100 or more, we will give you a statement of your 
 account and a history of interest rates throughout the year. 
 
Our current interest rates are displayed on our 
 website and in all our branches. 
 
contact 
 us 
 if you have any questions about TESSA ISA or any of our other accounts. 
 Help is also available via the telephone from a member of our Central 
 Sales Team on 01635 555700. Register online with tell 
 me 
 for regular news updates on Newbury Building Society products. 
 
Newbury 
 Building Society is a participant of the Financial 
 Ombudsman Service. We also comply with the Mortgage, 
 Banking 
 and GISC Codes, 
 copies of which are available on request. You have the right under the 
 Data Protection Act 1998 to know what personal data is held about you 
 by the Society and to have any inaccuracies corrected. Please write 
 to Head Office if you do not want to receive marketing material.
 
links 
 | savings 
 wizard 
 | admin 
 fees 
 | investment 
 conditions 
 |
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
