
	
 Scarborough Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 	Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post
	 	
	 	2.55% (Gross per annum), variable rate on savings of £15 and above, (AER 2.55%)
	 
 	Our Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post can be an effective way to build up your savings. The Bond lasts for two years then transfers automatically to our First Post Account, giving you penalty free access to your money. So decide now to save every month and look forward to building an investment for the future.
 	
 	Product features
 	
 
 
 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	MINIMUM INVESTMENT
	 	
	 	The minimum investment required to open a Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post Account is £15.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	CLOSURE OF YOUR ACCOUNT
	 	
	 	The account may be closed without notice or penalties at any time.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	14 DAY COOLING OFF PERIOD
	 	
	 	See the Society's General Investment Conditions for full details.
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Annual Interest
 
	 	
	 	
	 	Effective Date: 12/01/01
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	
	 	From 
	 	To 
	 	Gross % p.a.* 
	 	Net % p.a.* 
	 	AER** 
	 	
	 	
	£15 
	£250,000 
	2.55 
	2.04 
	2.55 
 
 
	 	INTEREST
	*Interest will be paid or credited after deduction of income tax at the lower rate of 20% or, subject to the required certification, gross.
**AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year. (As every advertisement for a savings product which quotes an interest rate will contain an AER, you will be able to compare more easily what return you can expect from your savings over time.)
 	
	 	GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
	These terms and conditions (and those contained in the Scarborough Building Society general investment conditions) together with the Scarborough Building Society Memorandum and Rules set out the contractual relationship between Scarborough Building Society ('the Society'), and you, the member.
These conditions contain important information and should be read by you before you open an account with the Society. These conditions are available on this site by clicking on Other Information. 
No lump sum investment and no withdrawals are allowed during the term of the Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post. However, the account may be closed without notice or penalties at any time
 	
	 	OPENING AN ACCOUNT
	The minimum investment required to open a Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post Account is £15.
The maximum investment to open a Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post Account is £150 for a sole account and £300 where the account is opened in joint names.
One investment must be made in each calendar month after your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post has been opened. The minimum monthly payment is £15, the maximum being £150 for a sole account and £300 for a joint account.
If you miss a payment, it cannot be made in a subsequent month, nor can payments be made in addition to the normal monthly payment.
The Society reserves the right to close your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post if your balance falls below £15 and/or you do not make a monthly payment to your Keepsafe Savings Bond by Post for three consecutive months.
You may not open more than one Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post, either alone or jointly with anyone else. Each joint account is restricted to two account holders and once you have opened the account, you may not alter the number of account holders. Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post is not available to any types of Trustees.
The initial payment will only be accepted in the form of a cheque. Subsequent payments to your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post must be made by way of standing order either from the Society's First Post Account or from a bank or building society account. You must allow at least four working days for the payment to reach the Society where payments are made from a bank or building society account.
Where payments are made by way of standing order from the Society's First Post Account, you must ensure that the minimum balance of your First Post Account together with the monthly payment amount is maintained.
This is a share account and on opening the account, the account holder(s) will become an investing member(s) of the Society, in accordance with its Rules.
 	
	 	PROOF OF IDENTITY
	Proof of identity and verification of address are required for all applicants. Two original documents, not more than three months old are required for each investor, photocopies are not acceptable. The documents will be returned to you and should be either:
- Utility bill (e.g. Gas/Electricity)
- Bank/Building Society Statement
- Current Council Tax/Notice of Tax Coding
and MUST show the name and address of the investor as it appears on the application form. Further verification checks may be carried out by the Society.
If you already have an account with the Society bearing your current address, identification is not required.
Unless proof of identity is provided, and all appropriate sections of the application form have been completed, including date of birth, we will return your investment to you.
 	
	 	INTEREST
	Interest is payable annually and will be credited to your account on 1 May. The Society reserves the right to change the date on which interest is credited to your account.
If the balance on your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post falls below £15 and/or an investment is not made in a calendar month, the interest rate payable for the period that the balance remains below £15 and/or an investment is not made, will be the Society's variable base savings rate applicable at the time. Details are available on request. If payments on two consecutive months are missed, the interest rate will be the Society's variable base savings rate applicable at the time from the first day of the second month.
All rates are variable.
 	
	 	WITHDRAWALS
	Your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post cannot be operated through any of the Society's branches.
No withdrawals will be permitted during the term of your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post. However, you may close your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post at any time, after providing written notification to the Society.
This account does not offer cheque withdrawals payable to a third party. All closure cheques will be made payable to one or all of the account holders and sent to the last address on record.
Within 24 hours of receipt of instructions, the Society, wherever possible, will process all cheque withdrawals and transfers to other accounts subject to account terms and conditions.
 	
	 	MATURITY
	Your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post will mature on the second anniversary of the account being opened, regardless of the date your monthly payment is received. On maturity, your investment will be transferred to a First Post Account, or to any such other account as the Society may determine. The Society will write to you prior to the maturity of your Keepsafe Savings Bond By Post, advising you of the maturity date.
 	
	 	BANKING CODE
	The Society fully supports the aims of the Banking Code. Please visit this page.
OTHER INFORMATION
Please click on this page for details of the Society's Charitable Assignment Scheme and Money Laundering Prevention requirements.
 	
	 
 
 
 If you are interested in receiving further information about this product click here:
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Written quotations are available on request.
	
	
	Applicants must be aged 18 or over. In all cases the property will be security for the loan.
	Suitable life assurance may be required. All loans and benefits subject to status.
 
 
	The Society is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 Representative only of the Legal & General Marketing Group,	 members of which are
 regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for the purposes of making introductions
 to other representatives for recommending, advising on and selling life assurance and
 investment products bearing Legal & General's name.
	 
	 
 
 
 	
 	
	 	
	 	Find out about our lastest mortgage offer
	 	
	 	
	 	
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
