
BONUS BUILDER ACCOUNT Terms & Condtions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum Investment
 
 
 
- £10 per month
 (£20 joint) if opened in person at a branch office or agency where
 you live.
 
- £50
 per month (£100 joint) outside of our branch operating area.
 
 
Maximum
 Investment
 
 
- You can open
 more than one Bonus Builder Account, providing the total amount saved
 in the accounts does not exceed £100 per month (£200 joint). 
 
 
Additional Investments
 
 
 
- Your Bonus Builder
 Account is totally flexible, you can increase or reduce your monthly
 payments to suit your financial situation.
 
 
 
- You can make
 one investment between £10 (£50 out of area) and £100 each month
 (£20 and £200 joint), there is no fixed amount.
 
 
 Interest 
 
 
- Interest is added
 to your Bonus Builder Account on the anniversary of the account. 
 
 
 Bonus 
 
 
- The 4% gross
 (3.20% net) bonus is paid annually on the anniversary of your account
 providing no withdrawals are made during the twelve months before
 each anniversary.
 
 
 
- To qualify for
 the bonus you must make a minimum of ten monthly payments during the
 year (a year is defined as being twelve months from the anniversary
 date the account was opened to the anniversary of the next year).
 
 
 
Withdrawals 
 
 
- No withdrawals
 are permitted in each anniversary year without loss of bonus. However,
 you can have immediate access to your savings but you will lose your
 bonus. 
 
 
Term 
 
 
- The maximum term
 is five years. 
 
 
Premature Closure
 
 
 
- The premium interest
 rate (including the 4% gross annual bonus) is paid for each completed
 year.
 
 
 
- The basic interest
 rate (excluding the 4% gross annual bonus) is paid if the Bonus Builder
 Account is closed part way through the second or subsequent years.
 
- The Furness reserves
 the right to close your Bonus Builder Account if regular subscriptions
 are not maintained.
 
 
. Charitable
 Assignment Scheme
 
 
- All new savers
 opening share accounts must sign a declaration agreeing to assign
 any future windfall rights to the Charities Aid Foundation. For more
 information please visit the Mutuality page of our web site or telephone
 Furness Direct on 0800 22 05 68. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
