
Newbury 5
 
 
 
 
homebuyers 
 | Newbury 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Features 
 
 
5 
 Year Discounted Variable Mortgage Rate 
 Newbury 5 offers a discount from our standard variable mortgage interest 
 rate for 5 years. The discount is structured so that the more deposit 
 you put down the more you save.
 Loans up to 75% loan to value........……......0.50%
 Loans from 75.01% to 90% loan to value.....0.35%
 Loans from 90.01% to 95% loan to value.....0.20% 
 
Standard 
 Variable Mortgage Rate of 5.99% (6.3% APR)
 Our standard variable mortgage interest rate is currently one of the 
 lowest in the country. Click here 
 to find out about our track record and Long Term Value. No Arrangement 
 or Application Fees We will not charge you an arrangement fee to set 
 up your Newbury 5 mortgage. This means that if you are moving house, 
 you will have less to pay when it matters most. If you are moving your 
 mortgage from another lender, your costs will be minimised, leaving 
 your disposable income free to save or spend on other things. 
 
No 
 Valuation Fee
 We will carry out a standard valuation of the property and providing 
 your mortgage completes, we will pay for it. We will also give you a 
 copy of the valuation report. 
 
 No 
 Additional Security Fee 
 We will not charge you an Additional Security (Mortgage Indemnity) fee 
 when taking out your Newbury 5 mortgage. This is particularly helpful 
 for First Time Buyers who tend to have a lower deposit and a tighter 
 budget. 
 
 £250 
 Cash Bonus 
 On completion of your mortgage, you will receive a cash bonus of £250. 
 This could be used as a contribution towards your legal fees, reducing 
 your mortgage costs even further. 
 
 No 
 Early Repayment Charge 
 We will not charge you for repaying part or all of your mortgage early. 
 A capital repayment of £1000 or more on top of your normal monthly payment 
 will reduce your mortgage balance and credit your mortgage account immediately 
 with the interest you would have paid on the amount. 
 
No 
 Compulsory Newbury Building Society Insurance 
 We can arrange Buildings and Contents Insurance to protect your home. 
 We recommend that you take Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (MPPI) 
 to protect your income if you cannot work through redundancy or illness. 
 We also recommend financial advice, which we offer through our partnership 
 with Norwich Union. 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
Available for house 
 purchase and remortgage. 
 Portable - the benefits can be continued on your new mortgage if you 
 decide to move house. 
 No early repayment charges. 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
 
 
No application fee. 
 
 No arrangement fee.
 No valuation fee. 
 No additional security (MIG) fee. 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
Newbury 
 5 is available from 4 December 2000. A written quotation is available 
 on request. 
 
 The 
 maximum benefit available under Newbury 5 is 4% of the total loan amount. 
 
 Registered 
 mortgage intermediaries receive a fee when introducing mortgages to 
 us which, if applicable, will be disclosed to you. 
 
To 
 apply for a mortgage you must be aged 18 or over. All loans are subject 
 to status and independent valuation. 
 
 You 
 should ask your tax office if Newbury 5 benefits are subject to tax. 
 
 
Your 
 mortgage account must be conducted satisfactorily to continue to benefit 
 from the features of Newbury 5. 
 
Interest 
 is charged annually on 1 November. 
 
We 
 do charge mortgage administration fees for specific mortgage services. 
 These are detailed in 'Administration 
 Fees'. 
 
The 
 Society frequently discloses black and white data on mortgage customers 
 to a credit reference agency. This procedure has strict rules in order 
 to protect account holders and has been approved by the Data Protection 
 Commissioner. 
 
Back 
 to menu 
 
 
#A 
 typical example of a £75,000 interest only mortgage over 25 years (300 
 months) on a property valued at £100,000 is: 60 monthly payments at 
 5.49% of £343.13 and 240 monthly payments at 5.99% of £374.38. Total 
 amount payable is £185,739, which includes typical solicitors charges 
 of £300 and repayment of capital of £75,000. APR 6% assumes the interest 
 rate reverts to our then variable mortgage rate of interest after 60 
 months and does not vary over the mortgage term. 
 
 
 
 YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE 
 OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. The property will be required as security 
 for the loan. 
 
 The 
 Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members 
 of which are regulated by the Personal Investment Authority and/or IMRO 
 for life assurance, pensions and investments. Any financial advice given 
 will relate only to the products of the Society and Norwich Union. 
 
Newbury 
 Building Society is a member of the Building 
 Societies Association and of The Building Societies Ombudsman 
 Scheme. We comply with the Mortgage, 
 Banking 
 and ABI Codes 
 - click on the link or ask for a copy from one of our branches. You 
 have the right under the Data Protection Act 1998 to know what personal 
 data is held about you and to ask for any inaccuracies to be corrected. 
 
 
It 
 is important to read our mortgage information page 'Your Mortgage Facts', 
 click here.
 
 contact us 
 for further information on our Newbury 5 mortgage, or alternatively 
 register online with tell 
 me 
 for regular news updates on Newbury Building Society products. 
 
Head 
 Office address:
 17 Bartholomew Street,
 Newbury,
 Berks
 RG14 5LY
 tel: 01635 555700
 fax: 01635 555799
 e-mail: mail@newbury.co.uk 
 
 
new 
 enquiries hotline: 01635 555700 
 
Back 
 to menu
 
 
 
 
