
Annual General Meeting 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > Home > About Us > Summary Financial Statement 2001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vision & Values
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Community Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Charitable Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Head Office
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 History
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Annual General Meeting 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary Financial Statement 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Address by John Roques, Chairman
AGM Result - Final
Voting Figures 
 
Summary Financial Statement 2001 - A record year - thanks to your support. 
 
 
Summary of Address by John Roques, Chairman
Let me begin with the Society’s performance during 2001, which was, by any
measure, extremely impressive. 
With record levels of new residential mortgage business and the acquisition
of Sun Bank, your Society’s assets grew by an exceptional 32% during 2001 to a
total of over £9 billion. Although net retail inflows for savings were slightly
lower than last year at £676 million, they were still 50% ahead of our natural
market share.
We believe that continued growth in our retail savings in what is a very
competitive market is the most reliable indicator of the quality of service and
value we provide to our members.
Our margin, primarily the difference between the rate we pay to our savers
and the rate we receive on mortgages, reduced once again, from 1.28% to 1.22%.
This was another clear benefit to you, our members, delivered through
competitive pricing for both savings and mortgages. 
In 2001, costs increased by 11%, the majority of the increase being
attributable to the Society’s continued expansion and improvement of branch
premises. 
Profits increased by 9%, which contributes to the capital required to support
the Society's growth during 2001.
Once again your Society performed particularly well by recording one of the
lowest levels of residential mortgage arrears in the industry. At the end of the
year there were 19 properties in possession compared with 26 at the end of 2000.
As we move into a period of higher unemployment and a more challenging economy,
the Society’s management will continue to ensure a high level of prudence in
mortgage credit and underwriting. 
A further major event in the year was the completion of the landmark building
at the top of Richmond Hill that is the Society’s new Head Office. For the
first time in 14 years, all of our people outside the branches are now working
in one location, having moved from six temporary premises last autumn. Some of
you attending today may have been amongst the 500 or so local members who
visited the new building on one of the four open days held at the end of last
year. The new Head Office environment has already proved to be successful in
facilitating improved communication, greater efficiency and cost-savings. 
I hope you will agree that 2001 was a year of outstanding performance.
I am sure that you will want to know why, at the end of November 2001, your
Society completed the acquisition of Sun Bank plc, formerly a wholly owned
banking subsidiary of Sun Life of Canada. There were two main strategic reasons
why we thought this exciting initiative was in members’ interests. Firstly, it
is a well-run, profitable and regulated institution, operating in segments of
the residential mortgage market that are different from those of your Society.
This acquisition allows us to transact business successfully in these new
segments of the market using the proven skills and expertise of the Sun Bank
management and thus obtain enhanced returns on some of your money. Secondly, the
profits generated from Sun Bank will enable us to improve the pricing of the
products and services that we provide to you, our members.
Turning now to the issue of mutuality, we have as a Board maintained our
practice of reviewing, each year, our corporate structure. We have again
concluded that it is in the best interests of all our members that we remain a
mutual building society, operating primarily through a branch network based in
the South of England. I am sure many of you will have read, during the last
year, that it has again been demonstrated that mutual societies are able to
offer rates that are more consistently competitive over the long-term than those
of the traditional high street banks or the converted societies. We do not have
to pay dividends and can thus accept a lower level of profitability - we
require only the profit necessary to finance the growth in the balance sheet. 
We believe that being a mutual places a number of responsibilities on your
Directors. We must be prudent in the stewardship of your money and we have
again, during 2001, increased the group solvency ratio to in excess of 13%.
As a mutual we also think that it is important that we communicate well with
our members. We have enhanced the information in our document "A year with
Portman ". We have held many meetings with members’ groups and improved both
our call centre and our web-site. 
I now want to deal with a number of issues concerning directors. 
Last year, we set out details of Directors’ salaries and bonus payments
within the document ‘A year with the Portman’ which was sent to all of our
members. We were the first Society to adopt such a practice and I am pleased to
note that many other societies are now following our initiative. This year, we
are again leading the industry in the transparent provision of information for
you, our members, by also including a report providing full details of the
activities of the Board's Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
During the course of 2001, your Society appointed two new Non-Executive
Directors: Bill Tudor John and Sue Ellen. Bill has 30 years' experience of the
legal profession and investment banking. Sue brings to the Society considerable
knowledge of the financial and retail sectors, having previously been a
Non-Executive Director of Birmingham Midshires Building Society. They are both
well placed to assist the Board in addressing the challenges faced by your
Society, now and in the future.
Your Society now has assets in excess of £9 billion and the Directors you
elect need to demonstrate that they have the skill and experience to oversee a
financial organisation of this size. The complexities of the financial services
market and the changes in regulation call for exceptional levels of expertise
from the Directors appointed to the Portman. 
I now want to look forward to the current year. We are completely renewing
our information technology infrastructure. This will result in new branch
cashiering systems, improved Head Office processing and enhanced delivery
systems for our products and services.
We will continue to face difficult decisions relating to the pricing of our
savings and mortgage products. We remain in a low interest rate environment and
therefore need to maintain the optimal balance between an appropriate return for
our savers and a competitive position within the residential mortgage market. 
I hope that you are pleased with the achievements of the last year. None of
this would have been possible without the enthusiasm, dedication and sustained
hard work of the people who work for your Society. As you can imagine, there
were significant pressures on Portman employees during 2001, but they have
nevertheless continued to deliver and exceed their objectives. 
We have an outstanding group of people working in our branches who
continually receive accolades from our members for the friendly and professional
service they deliver. They are supported by equally efficient and qualified
people in Head Office. Our commitment to the training and development of our
people was recognised in 2001 when the Society received Investors in People
accreditation. 
On behalf of the Board and all our members, could I add my personal thanks to
everyone at the Society for their sustained efforts throughout the year. 
To view final voting figures, please click
here.
 
Back to Top
 
 
Jargon Buster
Q&A
Contact Us
Branch Finder
 
 
 
 
 
© 2001 Portman Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
