
	
	
	
	Stroud and Swindon Building Society - Mortgages > Buying to Let > Discount Flex Remortgage
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages Buying to Let Discount Flex Remortgage
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages 
 
Remortgaging 
Moving Home 
First Time Buyer 
Existing Borrower 
Buying to Let 
Discount Flex House Purchase 
Discount Flex Remortgage 
Buy to Let Guide 
Commercial Loans 
Important Information 
 Savings 
 
 Insurance 
 
 Planning your Finances 
 
 Intermediary Centre 
 
 About Us 
 
 Other Services 
 
Term Assurance 
 
Personal Loans 
 
Annual Multi-Trip Travel 
 
Royal Int. Air Tattoo 
 
Loyalty Discount 
 
Site Map 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Buy- 
to-Let Flexible Discount 2007
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 0.75% Discount to 1 May 2007 - currently 5.64% with no early redemption charges
 	 Buy to Let standard variable rate currently 6.39%
Providing an Opportunity forInvestment / Long-Term Growth / Regular Income / Tax Efficient Investment
 5.64% (6.4% APR)
	 Discount until 1 May 2007
	 The interest rate is discounted by 0.75% until 1 May 2007
The maximum loan is 75% of the valuation, subject to a minimum of £30,000 and a maximum of £250,000 per property (up to £500,000 for a total of 3 properties).
The minimum valuation that can be considered is £60,000.
	
	
	
	
- 75% maximum loan to value
	 
	
- Building Society Valuation Fee paid by Society*
	 
	
- Solicitors costs paid by the Society**
	 
	 
	 
	
	
- No charge for early repayment of mortgage
	
	
- No operational charges on overpayments and draw-downs
	
	
- A fee of £295 will deducted from the loan on completion
	
	 
	 
	MONTHLY INCOME CALCULATION
- the monthly rental income should cover 140% of the mortgage interest at 8%
- any excess earned income can also be taken into account
MONTHLY CALCULATION OF INTEREST
- the balance on which interest is charged will be recalculated at the month end
- option to make monthly payments on the last working day of the month
	
	
	* applies to properties with a valuation up to £600,000
** subject to the Society’s solicitor acting. Includes disbursements and normal costs of transfer but excludes redemption charges imposed by existing lender and the cost of any specialist reports recommended by the valuer
	
	
	OVERPAYMENTS
Any overpayments will provide you with an automatic credit facility which can be used to fund maintenance costs for example, or cover void periods i.e. periods when the property is not let.
BUILDING A PORTFOLIO
If it is your objective to build a portfolio of ‘properties to let’ the overpayments could help to fund the purchase of a further investment property in the future.
WAYS TO USE THE FLEXIBLE MORTGAGE
There are countless ways of adapting this mortgage to suit individual requirements and lifestyles :
paying off your mortgage early, creating tax efficient 'savings' by making lump sum overpayment, using any commission or bonus payments to reduce your mortgage and increase draw-down facility available, drawing down overpayments for family purchases such as a car, holiday or school fees, planning for baby breaks, periods of study leave or employment gaps by using the payment holiday / underpayment facility.
INSURANCE
You will be required to have adequate buildings insurance in force at all times. We will offer you our own specialised Landlord’s Building Insurance to which you can add Contents cover if you wish. If you prefer to arrange your own insurance, this is acceptable subject to you confirming that it is a Landlord’s policy.
PAYMENT PROTECTION
This is not available for Buy to Let mortgages, it may however, be possible to effect insurance to cover the loss of rental income.
EARLY REPAYMENT CHARGE
None.
COSTS
There are no day to day charges for operating your Flexiblle Mortgage.
SOLICITORS COSTS
We will appoint a Solicitor and pay their costs for acting for us on the transfer of the mortgage from your existing lender. We will not however, pay any fees and redemption charges imposed by your existing lender.
SECOND CHARGES
The draw-down facility is not available to borrowers who have a Second Charge registered against their property.
POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITIES
Whilst the Buy to Let mortgage may provide an opportunity for investment / long term growth / regular income and tax efficient investmenting, the Society cannot offer advice with regard to either a proposed purchase or the viability of any prospective letting you may be considering. Responsibility for the final decision to 'Buy to Let' must rest with you.
The Buy to Let Flexible 2007 remortgage is only available for new borrowers moving their mortgage to us.
This leaflet must be read in conjunction with the Society's mortgage handbooks and the Buy to Let Mortgage Mortgage Handbook.
FLEXIBLE MORTGAGE - OPERATING TERMS (version 10/2000)
 
1. GENERAL	
The Stroud and Swindon Flexible Mortgage is an innovative way of raising and repaying money where you give the Society a mortgage over your property as security. By including only two payment conditions the Flexible Mortgage puts you in control of your payments and how you repay the money. Providing you comply with two conditions you may pay any monthly amount or take a Payment Holiday. The two payment conditions are:
i. Your Capital Balance must not exceed your Credit Limit
ii. The Total Debt must be repaid on or before the end of the mortgage term
The payments you make within these conditions. To help you we will always tell you on interest rate changes or following lump sum payments or Draw-Downs the amount of the interest only monthly payment calculated on the Capital Balance. These payments will only be advisory; they will not be due unless your Capital Balance is equal to your Credit Limit.
2. INTEREST ONLY PAYMENTS
If your Capital Balance is equal to your Credit Limit then you must pay the interest only payment each month. If you operate your loan in this way for the full term you will be responsible to accumulate separately the Total Debt so you can repay it at the end of the term. You may choose to do this in a number of ways such as an ISA, endowment or pension policy. You will need to pay the premiums to the savings plan in addition to the interest only payments to us. Before choosing this method you should consult an Authorised Financial Advisor to select the method and savings product most suitable for you.
3. ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS
If you wish to control the reduction of your Credit to nil at the end of the term then you need to make additional payments as well as the interest only payments we notify. The level of additional payment is entirely at your discretion providing you reduce the Total Debt to nil by the end of the term. At any time we will be pleased to help you calculate a payment which will do this but it will always be your responsibility to ensure the Total Debt is decreasing in accordance with your wishes. Remember that whenever a payment is notified automatically by the Society it will be the interest only payment calculated as set out in 1 above and you must make an additional payment to achieve the reduction you require. With the options available to you of varying Additional Payments and Payment Holidays the Society is not able to monitor your payments for you and consequently it is important that you do so regularly and in particular when you receive your Annual Mortgage Statement.
4. PAYMENT HOLIDAYS
The Flexible Mortgage provides you with a Credit Limit and providing you ensure your Total Debt does not exceed your Credit Limit you may take a Payment Holiday. A Payment Holiday may mean you make no monthly payment or that you pay a monthly payment which is less than the interest only payment. This facility is one of the great advantages of the Flexible Mortgage: no longer do you have to commit in advance to a regular payment for the whole term - you can take control.
5. DRAW-DOWN
If your Total Debt is less than your Credit Limit you may Draw-Down more Credit. Subject to the notes on Second Charges below, the maximum Credit you can Draw-Down is the difference between your Total Debt and your Credit Limit. To make a Draw-Down a Draw-Down request form must be completed by all borrowers and submitted to the Society by the 20th of the month; a cheque for the amount of the Draw-Down payable to all borrowers will be posted on the last working day of the month. The minimum amount of Draw-Down is £500 and a maximum of six Draw-Downs is allowed in any twelve month period.
6. SECOND CHARGES
Draw-Downs are secured by the mortgage you give us over your property but to ensure all the Credit you take including Draw-Downs is first in priority the Society reserves the right to refuse its consent to the creation of any subsequent charge or encumbrance on the property. Where the property is registered the Solicitor will be required to apply for the registration of a notice and restriction in accordance with the Special Conditions of the Offer of Credit.
If any charge or encumbrance exists or is created, even though it may be without your consent - for example a charging order, no further Draw-Downs will be permitted. Similarly if any borrower is made bankrupt or makes any proposals for or enters into any compromise or scheme of arrangement with creditors further Draw-Downs are prohibited.
7. INCREASING THE CREDIT LIMIT
Applications to increase the Credit Limit will be considered at any time and will be subject to status and valuation.
8. EARLY REDEMPTION INTEREST CHARGES
There are no Early Redemption Interest Charges on Flexible Mortgages. Therefore if you move house you can select a new Flexible Mortgage from our product range at that time.
	
	
	A typical example of an interest only loan of £60,000 repaid over 25 years (300 months) on a property valued at £100,000 is: Initial nominal interest rate 5.64% (0.75% discount) for 60 months from completion, monthly payments £281.99 and subsequently Buy to Let variable base rate currently 6.39%, monthly payments £319.50 (APR 6.4%). Total amount payable £153,894.40 calculated to include £93,599.40 total interest payable and £295 completion fee. Costs not included in the total amount payable are a deeds production fee and discharge fee (on redemption). Interest rates may vary but no account of any variation is taken in this example. 
[Details Correct : as at 10 June 2002]
The Society is a member of the Mortgage Code - Copies of the Council of Mortgage Lenders' leaflet 'You and Your Mortgage' are available on request or by clicking here. 
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	We operate a Charitable Assignment Scheme (please click here to read full details).
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society is a Member of the Building Societies Association and subscriber to the Banking and Mortgage Codes. 
The Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life assurance, pensions and investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of Stroud & Swindon Building Society and Norwich Union.
	
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society | Rowcroft | Stroud | Gloucestershire | GL5 3BG 
	
	© Stroud and Swindon Building Society, 2001. All rights reserved.
	
	Telephone Calls may be monitored and recorded for training and security purposes
	Site design, build and management by 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 0800 61 81 61 
	 
	 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	 
 
	
 
