
Skipton Building Society - isas - mini cash isa
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	isa portfolio 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	ISA Portfolio
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Apply Now
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Request a Pack
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Guide
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Jargon Buster
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	ISA Q+A
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Rates
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	The balanced way to save
	 
	
	
	
	An Individual Savings Account (ISA) from Skipton is a simple and easy way to let your money grow without any interest earned ending up in the taxman's hands. ISAs are the way to ensure that your investments are free from both Personal Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax. You don't even need to declare these on your tax return.
	
	The Government has guaranteed that ISAs will be around until April 2009, allowing you to plan for your future savings with confidence. ISA limits are for a given tax year, so you may invest up to your ISA limit each year. In the same tax year you can choose to invest in either a Maxi ISA or Mini ISAs. 
	
	
	
	
	Meet Maxi and Mini
	 
	
	
	
	ISAs are divided into two distinct groupings, Maxi ISAs and Mini ISAs. With a Maxi ISA you can invest up to a total of £7,000 in a combination of stock market investments, cash deposits and life assurance with a single provider.
	
	Mini ISAs allow you to invest the same total amount but each element will be separate and you can have them from different providers. You can invest £3,000 in a cash component, £3,000 in a stocks and shares component and £1,000 in an insurance component. 
	
	
	
	
	
	Skipton Mini Cash ISA - high interest, tax-free!
 	 
	
	
	
	If you want to earn a high rate of interest tax-free and you don't want the element of risk involved in stock market investments, the Skipton Mini Cash ISA is the ideal account for you.
	
	
	
	Tax-free high interest!
	 
	
	
	
	The account offers returns of 3.10% variable gross p.a./AER on balances of between £500 and £2,999, and 4.45% variable gross p.a./AER on balances of £3,000 or more. Your interest is paid gross, i.e. with no tax deducted at source, and is added to your account at midnight on 5th April each year.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	ISA FACT
	
	You can currently invest £3,000 in a Mini Cash ISA during each tax year. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	How does the Skipton Mini Cash ISA work?
	 
	
	
	
	The Skipton Mini Cash ISA allows you to invest up to £3,000 per tax year. The minimum investment is £500 and the maximum is £3,000 in any one tax year for the Skipton Mini Cash ISA, however this may be subject to change depending on regulations.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	ISA FACT
	
	If you take out the Skipton Mini Cash ISA, you can still have a Mini Equity ISA to help maximise your tax-free portfolio. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Access to your money - without losing your tax relief
	 
	
	
	
	With the Skipton Mini Cash ISA you can make partial withdrawals by giving us 30 days written notice. The minimum operating balance is £500 and withdrawals may be made by cheque for a minimum of £500 provided the minimum balance is maintained. You can place your account on notice twice in any one tax year for withdrawal, transfer or closure. A notice period begins from the date we receive your instructions.
	
	If you decide at some point to transfer your Mini Cash ISA to another Mini Cash ISA from a different provider, we will require 30 days' written notice and a £30 administration fee to help us cover the costs involved. Again, if you do this your interest earned is tax-free.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	ISA FACT
	
	If you currently have a TESSA, you can still invest in a Mini or Maxi ISA. When your TESSA matures, your maturing capital can be invested in a TESSA-only ISA without affecting your normal annual limits.
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Who can benefit from a Mini Cash ISA?
	 
	
	
	
	Anyone resident in the UK and over the age of 16 can open a Skipton Mini Cash ISA, provided that you haven't already opened a Mini Cash or Maxi ISA for the same tax year.
	
	Remember that ISAs are subject to Inland Revenue rules and regulations, and it is your responsibility to ensure that you do not contravene them. Skipton is not able to accept transfers from other ISA providers. 
	
	
	
	
	Open an account today
	 
	
	
	
	Simply complete an application form and return it together with a cheque for at least £500 to your nearest branch. Alternatively, you can send it direct to our First Class Unit at our Principal Office. The address is Skipton Building Society, The Bailey, Skipton, BD23 1DN.
	
	If you are a new customer please produce some form of identification and verification of address as detailed in the application form. This is a legal requirement for all banks and building societies.
 
	
	
	
	
	
	Cancelling your investment
	 
	
	
	
	When you open your account we will send you an ISA acknowledgement letter to confirm your investment. You will then have 14 days in which to change your mind and request cancellation. Any such request must be in writing and must be received at the Society's Principal Office within 14 days of receipt of the acknowledgement letter. 
	
	
	
	
	Charitable Assignment
	 
	
	
	
	Skipton Building Society has found that its usual high standard of service to its committed members has been disrupted by the actions of speculators. To avoid continued disruption of its business the Society requires new investors to agree to assign any potential windfall benefits they receive to a charity (currently the Skipton Building Society Charitable Foundation) in the event of a transfer of the Society's business to a bank or other company announced within 5 years of their accounts being opened. Existing shareholding members as at 29th February 2000 who continuously maintain a shareholding account are not affected by this change. 
	
	Skipton Building Society still continues to welcome genuine customers who appreciate the long term value of investing with a Building Society. 
	
	
	
	
	Complaints Procedure
	 
	
	
	
	If you are not happy with our service, we have an internal complaints procedure. You can view this in the Customer Service area of this site or ask for details of this procedure at a branch or from our Principal Office. Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Talking Financial Sense
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	We appreciate that ISA accounts may be confusing. That's why we've compiled an ISA Q&A for your most commonly asked questions. After all, we're here to make sense of your money. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Additional terms and conditions for Skipton Mini Cash ISA
	
- A Skipton Mini Cash ISA may only be opened by an individual aged 16 or over who is resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for tax purposes or, if not so resident, performs duties which by virtue of Section 132 (4) (a) of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 (Crown Employees serving overseas) are treated as performed in the UK, or is married to a person who performs such duties.
- The account must not be a joint account or held on behalf of a person other than the account holder.
- All customer transactions must be made by cheque.
- The account holder must not subscribe to more than one Mini Cash ISA, or subscribe to a Maxi ISA in any one tax year.
- The application form including Declaration and Authorities must be completed and signed by the applicant.
- The minimum investment for the Mini Cash ISA is £500 and the maximum is £3,000 in any one tax year. The minimum operating balance is £500.
- Interest will be paid gross into the account at midnight 5th April each year.
- You will have 14 days from receipt of your ISA acknowledgement letter in which to change your mind and request cancellation of your investment in writing only. This is subject to all necessary identification requirements having been met. Your cancelled ISA will not count as an ISA subscription. Interest will be paid gross for the cancellation period.
- The commencement date of the Skipton Mini Cash ISA will be the date of the first entry in your passbook.
- The account can only be put on notice for withdrawal, closure or transfer twice in any tax year.
- Withdrawals can be made on receipt of 30 days written notice. The minimum operating balance is £500. Withdrawals above this figure may be made by cheque for a minimum of £500. Investors should note however, that in accordance with ISA rules, investments in any tax year are limited to the amount permitted by the Inland Revenue (currently £3,000) regardless of the level of withdrawals made.
- Closure and transfer to another ISA provider are allowed but 30 days written notice is required subject to condition 10 above. For transfers to other ISA providers a fee of £30, to cover administration costs, is required and must be received at the same time as we receive your written notice. Transfer of the account will be effected within 30 days of its receipt. If day 30 falls on a bank holiday/weekend, the transfer date will be brought forward to the previous working day. Your notice will not be effective or processed until we have the £30 fee.
- Interest rates are variable. Rate changes will be advertised in two national daily newspapers of our choice (currently the Daily Telegraph and The Express) and by general notice exhibited in all our branches.
- We guarantee that the rates of interest on this product will never fall more than 1% below the Bank of England base rate ('the minimum guaranteed rate'). If the minimum guaranteed rates are in force, any new interest rates will become effective 14 days from the day after a subsequent Bank of England base rate change.
- In the event of death, gross interest up to the date of death will be paid into the account. The account will become an access account from the date of death with tax deducted at the appropriate rate. In this event you will be advised of the new terms of the account and any alternatives available at the time.
- The account will be operated in accordance with prevailing rules and regulations and legislation which may, of course, be varied from time to time, by the Government.
- In the event of you breaching rules, regulations and legislation for a Mini Cash ISA, or any of the Terms and Conditions of this Mini Cash ISA, the Society will immediately transfer the account to an access account backdated to when the account was opened and deduct tax at the appropriate rate. You will be advised of the rates and terms of the access account applicable at the time of transfer. The account will be debited to recover any tax payable on the gross interest that has already been credited and this may involve withdrawals from interest that has been capitalised. The Society will also transfer the account in this way if the account holder becomes bankrupt.
- The account holder cannot assign their rights in the account or use them as security for a loan.
- Skipton Building Society is a participant of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits in a society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of shares and deposits are not covered, for example deferred shares - permanent interest bearing shares. Although most shares and deposits are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society.
- The Skipton Mini Cash ISA is a share account which confers membership rights and is subject to the rules of the Society. Copies of the Rules can be obtained from any branch or from our Principal Office.
- The terms of the charitable assignment arrangements are set out in the Investment Application Forms as well as our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions leaflet. There are certain categories of investor who will be exempt from assigning any future windfall rights. A list of these categories is available from any branch or our Principal Office.
	
	This is not a CAT standard ISA.
	
	We subscribe to the Banking Code, copies of which are available on request.
	
	If you are not satisfied with our service we have an internal complaints procedure. You should ask for details of this procedure at a branch or our Principal Office.
	
	*To help maintain service quality, some telephone calls with customers may be recorded and monitored.
	
	AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and compounded each year.
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
