
 
Mortgage Procedure - House Purchase Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow our guide for a general insight into purchasing a residential property 
 and matters relevant to making a mortgage application with Dudley Building 
 Society. It is not intended as an exhaustive list. 
 
 
 
 Find out how much you 
 can borrow and what the mortgage procedure involves BEFORE you begin 
 property hunting. You should be able to comfortably afford the monthly 
 payments and be fully aware of the costs involved.
 We recommend that you follow our mortgage procedure 
 to find out our lending criteria or contact our Mortgage Sales 
 Team on (01384) 231414. 
 
 
 
 
 
 To help speed up the process and give you total confidence in your 
 mortgage arrangements you are recommended to complete a Mortgage Application 
 Form. Return your completed form with the following: 
 
 
- Original identification (if you are 
 not an existing customer)
 
- Confirmation of income e.g. P60, 
 wage slips or audited accounts
 
- Mortgage or Rent Statement (if applicable)
 
 
Upon receipt of the above we may request the following:
 
 
- Credit Reference to check satisfactory conduct of other loans 
 or debts
 
- Employment Reference
 
 
- Current Lender or Landlord Reference (some organisations may 
 charge a fee for this)
 
 
We will keep you fully informed of our progress and timescales 
 involved. Please ask if there is anything that is still not clear 
 to you at this stage.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Now you can go and find your dream house. Don't be too hasty - take 
 into consideration the state of repair of the property, the location, 
 local amenities etc. If you contact an Estate Agent and tell them 
 your maximum purchase price, they will add you to their mailing lists 
 and advise you of suitable properties. Look in the local papers and 
 drive around areas that you are interested in. When you have found 
 your dream house, you will need to contact the Selling Agent and make 
 a formal offer. When your offer has been accepted by the vendors (the 
 people selling the property), contact a Solicitor/Conveyancer and 
 inform them of the property you intend to purchase. Your Solicitor/Conveyancer 
 will carry out the necessary searches to ensure that the property 
 has no problems e.g. that there are no motor way plans registered 
 or rights of way issues. There are no set guide lines when it comes 
 to fees for this work so choose your solicitor carefully. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contact us with your property details and pay the valuation 
 fee. As all other status checks have been satisfied a Mortgage 
 Offer will be issued to you as soon as we receive a satisfactory 
 Valuation Report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your Mortgage Offer will detail the mortgage you are applying for 
 and any special conditions that we may have attached. A copy of 
 the Offer is also sent to your Solicitor/Conveyancer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upon receipt of the Mortgage Offer, your Solicitor/Conveyancer will 
 finalise any searches, comply with any special conditions that we 
 may have requested and prepare the Mortgage Deed and Contracts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 When all of the legal work has been completed, your Solicitor/Conveyancer 
 will contact you to sign and "Exchange Contracts" with the 
 Vendor (seller). At this point you are legally committed to the purchase. 
 You will also pay a deposit (normally 10%) which you could lose if 
 you pull out of the purchase. You will also set a date for completion 
 of the purchase. 
 
 
 
 
 
 On the completion date, the transaction will be finalised. Dudley 
 Building Society will forward the mortgage funds and you will pay 
 the balance of the purchase price to your Solicitor/Conveyancer. You 
 will sign the Mortgage Deed and receive the keys to your property. 
 The Title Deeds will be registered with HM Land Registry and held 
 by the Society. At this point you will also have to pay your Solicitor/Conveyancer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 You can now MOVE IN! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We will begin to charge interest on your loan from the day that 
 we transfer the money to your solicitor. For further information, 
 please read the page on How we Charge Interest.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 YOUR 
 HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP THE REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER 
 LOAN SECURED ON IT 
 
 
