
ClayCross - News
 
 
 
Newsletter
 4 
 
Children
 in Need
 
As in previous years during November the
 Society took part in fund raising for Children in Need. There was a
 competition to name two cuddly teddies, a dog and a mole. The local card
 shop kindly donated one of their teddies. A customer drew the winner’s
 names out of a hat. The mole’s name was Digger and was won by Charlie
 Barnes and the dog’s name was Sluppy and was won by Mr David Edinburgh.
 
The competition has
 raised £35.00 and will be sent to ‘BBC Children in Need’, along with
 all proceeds from customers.
 
 
 
If you would like to make
 any further donations to ‘Children
 in Need’ Clay Cross Building Society have an account for them and we
 will be more than happy to accept any donation. The account number is
 D83811-6. 
 
 
 
Many thanks to everyone
 who took part.
 
Goodbye
 and Good Luck
 
 
 
 
 We would like to say
 goodbye to Helen Norman who after 12 years service left on the 9th
 of November 2001. We would like to wish her all the best for the
 future.
 
At the end of September Mr John
 Shepherd retired from the board of directors after 33 years. We would like to wish him all the best all the best for
 the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hugh Meredith and John
 Shepherd 
 
 
 
Investors
 in people
 
 
 
Clay Cross Building
 society has recently achieved the ‘Investors
 in People’ award.
 
 
 
In order to get the award
 the employers had to prove their abilities to look after their staff and
 provide for their training and for certain needs.
 
 
 
Developed in 1990 by the
 National Training Task Force in partnership with leading national
 businesses, then supported by the employment department it proves a great
 standard of achievement. 
 
Recruitment 
 
We are pleased to
 announce that Shaun Newbold is our most recent new employee. We would like
 to wish him all the best in his career at Clay Cross Building Society.
 
Blooming
 Lovely 
 
 
 
North East Derbyshire
 District Council are encouraging local businesses to advertise by
 sponsoring floral displays throughout the district. The Council share an
 advertising sign and a display.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Michelle Pledger at
 the Tupton/Wingerworth Roundabout 
 
 
 
Clay Cross Building
 Society were the first to take advantage of the scheme by sponsoring the
 Tupton/Wingerworth roundabout. This helped to raise money for improving
 the appearance of the area.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Clay 
 Cross Building Society
 FREEPOST, Clay Cross, Chesterfield, Derbyshire S45 9BR
 (No Stamp Required)
 Freephone: 0800 834497 Fax: 01246 250397 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
