
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 8th May 2000
 This software was designed and developed by Black Sun Plc
 on behalf of Scarborough Building Society.
 Copyright Scarborough Building Society 2000, all rights reserved.
 ** CREDITS **
 Software Engineering
 Technical Team Leader & Architect - James Mace
 Technical Manager - Mirko Savarese
 Software Engineers - Andrew Cottrell
 Design
 Creative Director - Russell Douglas
 Designers - Domitilla Biondi
 Black Sun Plc
 9 Burlington Lodge Studios
 Rigault Road
 Fulham
 London
 SW6 4JJ
 Tel: +44 (0)20 7736 0011
 Fax: +44 (0)20 7736 1294
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
-->
 Scarborough Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
	
	 
- General Investment Conditions
	
- Operating Your Account by Telephone
	
- Money Laundering: Questions & Answers
	
- Charitable Assignment
	
- Customer Service Options
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 	
	 	Click to view our General Investment Conditions.
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 	
	 	Click to view our Telephone Access Conditions.
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 What is money laundering?
	Money laundering means the methods criminals use to disguise the money they make from their crimes.
	Drug dealers, terrorists, robbers, burglars and other criminals
	have to get rid of the proceeds of their crimes because large
	amounts of cash are difficult to store, handle, transport and spend.
	Also, there is the risk that the authorities will be able to trace the
	money back to the criminal. Therefore, criminals want to get their
	"dirty" money into the financial system so that it seems "clean" and
	is harder to trace. They can then spend it or use it to fund more
	crime.
	
What has this got to do with building society accounts?
	One of the ways for a criminal to "launder" his or her money is to pay it into an account with, say, a building society so that it becomes more difficult for the authorities to trace.
	Under the Money Laundering Regulations 1993, building
	societies, banks and other organisations offering savings and
	investment accounts must have procedures in place to stop
	criminals trying to use them to launder "dirty" money.
	
How could this affect me?
	To launder their money through building societies, banks, etc., criminals will usually try to open an account using a false identity.
	A false name and address might make it harder for the authorities
	to track the criminal and his or her money down during an
	investigation. For this reason anyone wishing to open an account
	will usually be asked for proof of identity and address.
	Please be patient when you open an account and are asked for such proof.
	For the good reasons set out above, building societies, banks and
	other organisations are determined to fight money laundering.
	They also have certain legal responsibilities and they can be
	criminally liable if they do not have procedures in place. Even if
	you only have a small sum to invest, checks must still usually be
	made. The fact that these checks are carried out does not mean
	you are under any suspicion. It is a sad fact that the criminals will
	always try to appear to be normal, law abiding customers - the
	only way to stop the criminals is to make checks on everyone.
	
What proof will I be asked for?
	It might vary from one building society or bank, etc. to another.
	Unlike many other countries, the United Kingdom does not have
	a national identity card system. This means that other items must
	be used as proof of identity and address. Obviously, if all
	organisations asked for exactly the same items, it would make life
	easier for money launderers. Typical items are a current full
	driver's licence, a current full passport, a pension book, etc. (Some checks can be done without asking you to provide such items, but
	you will almost always be asked for some direct proof.) 
Please
	remember, though, that whoever you open your savings or investment
	account with - whether it is a building society, bank, other financial
	organisation, supermarket, etc. - they are all, by law, obliged to carry out
	checks on your identity and address. (Another reason for carrying out the
	checks is to protect the customer and the account opening institution against
	fraud.)
	
Is more proof needed for postal and telephone accounts?
	Usually, yes.
	There is more risk of money laundering with accounts opened
	"non face-to-face", such as by post, telephone or Internet.
	
	Recently, at the request of HM Treasury, the financial services
	regulators (the Financial Services Authority and the Building
	Societies Commission) introduced stricter money laundering
	prevention requirements for non face-to-face accounts, requiring a
	larger number of checks to be made. (Again, the actual checks
	made might vary from one organisation to another.) Scarborough
	Building Society regrets any inconvenience to customers but it is
	important to remember that all
	 those offering savings or investment
	accounts to the public - whether building societies, banks, other financial
	organisations, supermarkets, etc. - are subject to tighter verification
	standards, which are the result of the increased regulatory requirements.
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 At Scarborough Building Society we aim to give the highest level of
 service to all our customers. As a mutual organisation we have had
 some disruption to our normal business caused by speculators. These
 people open a small savings account in the hope of receiving future
 windfall conversion benefits. This is despite the assurances we have
 given for many years that we are committed to remaining a mutual
 organisation and have no plans to change.
 To avoid any further disruption to our business we have introduced a
 new requirement for new investment customers. This will enable us to
 provide the level of service our genuine customers expect and deserve.
 All new savers opening share accounts must sign a declaration agreeing
 to assign any future windfall rights to Charities Aid Foundation.
 
This agreement will not apply to anyone who:
 
- opens a Scarborough Building Society share account with £2,500
 or more and keeps at least that amount in their account(s):
 or
 
- builds their share savings with Scarborough Building Society up to
 £2,500 or more and keeps at least that amount in their account(s):
 or
 
- has a Scarborough Building Society mortgage at the time their
 investment account is opened:
 or
 
- has held and continues to hold a share account with Scarborough
 Building Society since before 13 September 1999:
 or
 
- has held shares in Scarborough Building Society for a continuous
 period of five years or more on a date defined in the account
 application form.
 There are some other types of customer who are not affected by these
 assignments and a list of those is available from any branch or from our
 Investments Direct Department (telephone 0845 458 4522).
 The above notes are only a summary of the charitable assignment
 arrangements. The complete terms are in our new account application
 forms.
 Charities Aid Foundation is a long established charity and its purpose
 is to make sure that giving to charities is as effective as possible.
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 	
	 	Click to view our Investment Charges.
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
	 	
	 	Find out about our lastest mortgage offer
	 	
	 	
	 	
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
