
Skipton Building Society - Mortgages and Investments
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Portfolio
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Here to Help
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	What's Available
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	How to Repay
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Amount to Borrow
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Home Protection
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Property Valuation
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Total Cost
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	More flexible Mortgages
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Request a Pack
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Mortgage Jargon Buster
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Moving Home Checklist
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	English Guide to Moving
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Scottish Guide to Moving
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Monthly Payment Calculator
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Flexible Mortgage Savings Calculator
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	How Much Can I Borrow Calculator
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Call Me
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Great News for all Skipton Borrowers
	
	
	
	We have introduced improvements to the way mortgage interest is calculated. This means that our mortgages for all existing and new borrowers will be more flexible, less restrictive and more transparent. No other Building Society or former Building Society offers this flexible facility across all mortgages for all customers! The following Q & A gives you the good news. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	Why has Skipton changed to calculating interest daily?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	We recognise that over the term of a mortgage it is highly likely that your personal circumstances may change. This more modern way of calculating interest allows the tailoring of your mortgage to suit your own personal circumstances. It means that the mortgage balance on which interest is calculated is immediately reduced when capital is repaid - you do not have to wait until the end of the year.
	
	You can, therefore, take advantage of any surplus funds, for example, pay rises and bonuses to reduce the capital on your loan. You may also benefit from lower monthly payments, and dependant on the type of mortgage you have, a reduction in the mortgage term.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How can I pay off my mortgage early?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	If you have a repayment mortgage, from now on, every time you make a payment the amount on which your interest is being calculated is reduced immediately - meaning that you may save thousands of pounds. 
	
	There are various ways in which you can pay off more of your capital earlier to reduce your interest payments and ultimately the term of your loan. You can do this by making additional payments at any time. You will also have the ability to make a voluntary monthly additional payment, this can take the form of:
	
	
- A specified fixed amount above any contractual monthly payment (eg say an extra £20 per month), or
	
- A specified fixed monthly amount until such time as the contractual payment may exceed the specified amount (eg a fixed payment of say £350, being greater than the amount due, of say £300).
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	What if I have an endowment mortgage? How am I affected?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	You will also benefit immediately by making extra payments because this will reduce the interest charged on your mortgage. The effect of this is that at the end of your mortgage term you will need to depend less on the maturity value of your endowment policy and so, at that time, you may have more money in your pocket. You may also repay your mortgage early and keep the endowment policy simply as an investment, if you so choose.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	If my mortgage is subject to a special redemption/capital repayment charge, how 
	will this affect any additional payments I may wish to make?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	If you do have the type of mortgage which includes an early redemption fee or a capital repayment fee for early or partial repayment of the mortgage within a set period, then such a fee will still apply during that set period, irrespective of whether you have a repayment mortgage or an endowment mortgage. Our mortgages allow for at least a 10% reduction of the original advance each year, without charge.
	
	The charge which will be quoted within your Mortgage Offer, will be levied on any additional payment, in excess of 10% of the advance, and is debited to your mortgage account.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	What is the effect on my mortgage of me paying an additional £25/£50/£100 per month?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	The following examples are based on a capital and interest mortgage of £50,000 at a rate of 7% over a full 25 year term. Subject to the additional payments being maintained throughout the life of the mortgage, the savings are as shown:
	
	
	
	
	Additional Payment per month 
	
	Interest saving over mortgage term 
	
	Term of mortgage reduced by (months) 
	
	
	£ 25 
	
	£ 10,030 
	
	47 
	
	
	£ 50 
	
	£ 16,752 
	
	80 
	
	
	£ 100 
	
	£ 25,361 
	
	123 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How do I arrange to pay more than my normal payment?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	If you wish to pay a fixed amount above your contractual monthly payment, (a voluntary monthly payment), and you pay by direct debit, then you simply have to write to General Administration in Skipton giving us three working days' notice and we will make the arrangements for you. If you have more than one account, please take care to give precise instructions for each account. This will enable us to process your request as quickly as possible.
	
	If you don't pay by direct debit then you will either need to let your bankers know to increase your standing order or simply add the amount to your payment when you send it to us or pay it into our local branch.
	
	If you choose to pay a set figure per month, greater than, but including your contractual monthly payment, then exactly the same procedure applies. However, you need to be aware that if the contractual monthly payment ever reaches the stage where it exceeds the payment you are making, then it is the higher figure that will be due.
	
	You can make additional payments at any time at your local branch or direct to the Principal Office in Skipton.
	
	Whilst all additional payments will generally reduce the debt immediately, we will generally recalculate your contractual monthly payment whenever we receive an additional payment in excess of £1000 or three times the normal monthly payment, which ever is the greater. Besides creating the opportunity for smaller monthly payments in future, or a reduced term, such payments add considerably to the option for a future payment holiday.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How do I get a payment holiday?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	We understand that there may be times in your life when it really helps not to have to worry about your mortgage payments. For example, you may want to start a family or set up your own business and so a payment holiday could be the answer.
	
	Payment holidays are allowed up to the value of your previous additional payments with the following conditions:
	
	
	
- You must have had the mortgage at least six months.
	
- You must not have any current arrears nor have been in arrears at any month end during the previous six months.
	
- You will need to make a written request and all borrowers must sign that request.
	
- Any request must be received at least 14 days before the first payment which is to be affected.
	
- You will need prior approval before missing any payments.
	
- The maximum payment holiday allowed in any continuous period is three months.
	
- No more than six months payment holiday will be granted in any twelve month period.
	
- The payment holiday may be restricted if, after the payment holiday, the loan balance exceeds the original advance. 
	
	
	If your loan is around 95% of the valuation of your property, we may ask for a new valuation, for which you will pay. Should the payment holiday then cause the amount of the mortgage to exceed 95% of the up to date value, then it could be that you will not be allowed a payment holiday.
	
	You need to understand that although payments are suspended during any payment holiday, interest will continue to accrue on a daily basis on the amount of the mortgage loan outstanding and, therefore, the amount of your mortgage debt on which interest will be charged following a payment holiday, will have increased.
	
	If you do have a payment holiday approved, please make sure that you do not cancel your direct debit, as this will affect the interest charged if you currently enjoy a discount for paying by this method. We will simply arrange to suspend direct debit payments as agreed.
	
	PAYMENT HOLIDAYS ARE NOT AVAILABLE ON COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES OR BUY TO LET LOANS.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How do I arrange a payment holiday?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Give us a call on 01756 705008 and ask for Mortgage Payments. We will work out the figures for you and will let you know what to do next. Please remember though, we will need all borrowers to sign the request form.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How long will it take to arrange a payment holiday?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Subject to everything being in order, if you called us today your holiday could start from as early as your next payment date as long as we have time to do the necessary paperwork.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	Will my monthly payment at the end of a payment holiday be the same as that at the start of the holiday?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Obviously interest rates could change during the period when you are enjoying a payment holiday. However even if there is no change to the mortgage rate during that period, and you take a payment holiday for an amount greater than twice your normal monthly payment, then your new payment from the first of the month following the end of the holiday is likely to be slightly higher than that which applied before the holiday. The reason for this is that whilst we are suspending the obligation to make monthly payments during a payment holiday, interest continues to accrue on your mortgage on a daily basis. Therefore, the balance at the end of your payment holiday will be higher than at the start.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	What happens to my direct debit discount during a payment holiday?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	The discount continues. The Society is temporarily not collecting your direct debit payments - you are not stopping them.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How is your new redemption charge calculated once I am outside my redemption charge period?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Instead of being charged an additional month's interest you will only now be charged additional interest up to the end of the month during which redemption takes place. This will be calculated on the balance at the redemption date.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	If any fees are added to my mortgage account, am I charged interest on them?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Yes, any fees charged to a mortgage account will attract interest from the date of the debit. However, the following generally are exceptions:
	
	
	
- the interest charged in the month of completion.
	
- the redemption sealing fee or redemption fee/charge.
	
	
	If you happen to pay a fee before it is actually debited to your account, then of course you will be advantaged and receive an immediate interest benefit.
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	How will you treat the insurance premiums which are debited to my account?
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	On the 1st day of each month, one-twelfth of your annual premiums will be debited to your account and will start to attract interest from that date until they are paid in full. This one-twelfth is collected with your monthly mortgage payment.
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	A member of the Building Societies Association
	
	
	
	
	
	The Society supports the Code of Mortgage Lending Practice,
copies of which are available on request.
	 
	
	
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
	
	 
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
