
Choosing the right Mortgage for you
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEVELS OF MORTGAGE SERVICE WE OFFER
 
We follow the MORTGAGE CODE.
 
We can offer information on one product if you have already 
 made up your mind, however, if you have not yet decided which 
 of our mortgage products you wish to take, the Society will 
 be pleased to offer you advice and make a recommendation 
 as to the best mortgage product for you. If you do not require 
 advice and a recommendation, we will be pleased to offer you 
 information only on our mortgage products.
 
 MAIN MORTGAGE REPAYMENT METHODS WHICH WE CAN OFFER
 
 1. Repayment Mortgage - Capital and Interest Payments 
 made to the Society
 
 Each month you make a payment to us consisting of capital and 
 interest. During the early years most of the monthly payment 
 consists of interest and it is only later on during your mortgage 
 term that you pay back most of the capital balance. There is 
 no life assurance arranged with this type of mortgage. It is 
 strongly recommended, therefore, that you take separate life 
 assurance cover so that the mortgage is paid off should you 
 die during the mortgage term.
 
 2. Interest Only
 
The monthly payment you make to the Society consists of interest 
 only. You choose the repayment vehicle, eg. Endowment policy, 
 ISA, Pension or other form of investment, as long as it provides 
 you with the means to repay the full mortgage balance at the 
 end of the mortgage term. If you do not make a suitable arrangement 
 to pay off your mortgage at the end of the mortgage term you 
 will have to pay interest until the loan is repaid in full. 
 It is your responsibility to check annually that there is an 
 adequate repayment vehicle in place. In the event that the repayment 
 vehicle is not adequate to repay your loan in full at the end 
 of the mortgage term, you will be responsible for paying interest 
 on this loan until it is fully repaid to the Society.
 
 There is no life assurance cover arranged with this type of 
 mortgage and you are therefore advised to arrange separate life 
 assurance cover so that the mortgage is paid off should you 
 die during the mortgage term.
 
 3. MORTGAGE PRODUCT INFORMATION AND TYPES OF INTEREST RATES 
 AVAILABLE EXPLAINED
 
 I) Variable Rate Mortgages
 
 Variable rate mortgages are the most common type of loan. The 
 rate of interest that you pay goes up and down during the lifetime 
 of your mortgage, broadly in line with interest rates in the 
 economy as a whole. When the interest rate goes up, the amount 
 that you have to pay also rises, and falls when interest rates 
 come down.
 
 ii) Discounted Rate
 
 This is a discount off the interest rate normally charged to 
 borrowers, for a limited period at the start of the mortgage. 
 The interest rate chargeable on the mortgage account is variable, 
 even during the discount period. After the discount period has 
 expired the interest rate will revert to the normal Standard 
 Variable Rate of Interest.
 
 iii) Tracker
 
 A Tracker rate is linked to the Bank of England's Base Rate 
 and will usually move within one month of a Bank Base Rate change.
 
iv) Fixed Rate
 
 A fixed rate loan gives a guaranteed rate of interest for an 
 agreed period of time. This can be very comforting if you have 
 a larger loan or a tight budget, because it guarantees that 
 the payments won't rise. If interest rates fall mortgage payments 
 remain the same.
 
 If you're interested in a fixed rate mortgage you should think 
 carefully about how long you want to be locked into the fixed 
 rate.
 
 When the fixed period ends the mortgage will revert to the Standard 
 Variable Rate of Interest.
 
v) Capped Rate
 
 This is a variable interest rate. The interest rate will 
 not exceed a specified rate during the period that the "cap" 
 is in place. At the end of the capped rate period, the interest 
 rate would revert to the Standard Variable Rate of Interest.
 
vi) End of fixed term Special 
 Schemes
 
 At the end of any fixed rate or discounted rate period, 
 the mortgage interest rate will revert to the Society's Standard 
 Variable Rate of Interest. Your mortgage illustration will tell 
 you what the monthly payment will be at the end of the discounted 
 or fixed rate period at the Society's prevailing basic rate 
 of interest
 
vii) Flexible Mortgage
 
 This type of mortgage offers facilities for changing mortgage 
 payments in line with financial circumstances, the option to 
 take payment holidays and to increase borrowing with the minimum 
 of formality. Interest is calculated on a daily basis on the 
 Society's Flexible Mortgage scheme.
 
 
 4. EARLY REPAYMENT OF A MORTGAGE, EARLY SURRENDER OF AN INVESTMENT 
 PRODUCT, OR CHANGES IN YOUR PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES
 
 You must remember that if you redeem your mortgage early or 
 make an early surrender of an investment product, this can adversely 
 affect your financial situation depending on the type of mortgage 
 or investment product that you have. Similarly you must remember 
 that unexpected changes in your circumstances, for example redundancy, 
 long term illness or relationship breakdown could mean that 
 you have to redeem your mortgage early resulting in the application 
 of early repayment charges.
 
Although Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance is available 
 should you wish to cover your payments in the event of sickness, 
 accident or unemployment, it is important to remember that this 
 will not cover relationship breakdown which could cause you 
 financial problems, and may mean that you are unable to make 
 your mortgage payments. In the event of financial difficulty 
 or hardship arising from unexpected changes in circumstances, 
 we will act sympathetically and work with you to find a positive 
 solution. In the unfortunate event of death of a borrower, consideration 
 is usually given to waiving any early repayment charges although 
 the Society is not under a legal obligation to do so.
 
 5. MORTGAGE TERM AND ESTIMATED RETIREMENT AGE
 
 The usual maximum mortgage term allowable is up to 25 years.
 
 In view of the changes which occur to people's financial arrangements 
 when they retire, the mortgage term which you select should 
 not normally go beyond your anticipated retirement date.
 
 If you do request a mortgage term which will mean that the mortgage 
 will still be running when you retire, the Society can only 
 assess your financial arrangements at the time of the application, 
 and the Society is not in a position to check the future adequacy 
 of your pension arrangements. It is therefore your responsibility 
 to check at the time of your application and during the term 
 of your mortgage, that you have and will continue to have adequate 
 income from which to meet your commitments on this mortgage 
 and any other financial commitments you may have.
 
 6. PORTABILITY
 
 Most of the Society's mortgages can be continued if you 
 move house in England or Wales. You must refer to the Key Features 
 of your chosen mortgage product to ascertain whether the particular 
 mortgage you chose can be ported. Portability is dependent on 
 the specific terms available at the time you move house.
 
 7. PROPERTY INSURANCE
 
 Property Insurance is always required and it is your responsibility 
 to keep the property fully insured at all times.
 
 We can help you to arrange Property Insurance with Royal & 
 SunAlliance PLC. The Royal & SunAlliance PLC is a member 
 of the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC).
 
 The main terms, exclusions and restrictions of the Royal & 
 SunAlliance PLC Property Insurance Policy are explained in the 
 Property Insurance leaflet given to you. Royal & SunAlliance 
 PLC will be asked to let you have an illustration for this type 
 of insurance.
 
 8. MORTGAGE PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE
 
 We can help you to arrange Mortgage Payment Protection insurance 
 with Royal & SunAlliance PLC to provide cover for your monthly 
 payments in the event of sickness, accident or unemployment. 
 The main terms, exclusions and restrictions of the cover available 
 from Royal & SunAlliance PLC are explained in the Mortgage 
 Payment Protection Insurance leaflet given to you.
 
 Royal & SunAlliance PLC will be asked to let you have an 
 illustration for this type of insurance.
 
 9. TARIFF OF MORTGAGE CHARGES
 
 We have given you our current Tariff of Mortgage Charges 
 which shows other costs which may apply during the application 
 process and during the life of the mortgage. If there are any 
 changes to any of these charges, you will be given a new tariff 
 at least one month before the changes take effect.
 
 During the processing of your application, other costs can arise 
 which may not have been referred to in the tariff or in product 
 literature.
 
 Although this is not an exhaustive list other costs can include 
 payment of a reference fee to your existing lender particularly 
 if you are unable to provide your existing mortgage statements.
 
 You will have to pay the legal fees of transferring the property 
 and registering it into your name, arranging the mortgage or 
 transferring the mortgage from another lender and, in addition, 
 there may be other unexpected legal costs if there are any problems 
 with the transferring or correcting of the title to your property 
 or in obtaining any planning consents or building regulation 
 approval for alterations. If additional inspections of your 
 property are necessary this will be referred to in any mortgage 
 offer and may involve an additional reinspection fee as shown 
 in the Tariff of Charges.
 
 Stamp Duty
 
 If you are buying a property with a purchase price of £60,000 
 or greater, you will have to pay stamp duty at the following 
 rates, applicable in the tax year 2001/2002:-
 
 £60,000 - £250,000 - 1% of the purchase price
 £250,000 - £500,000 - 3% of the purchase price
 Over £500,000 - 4% of the purchase price
 
 Further Advance Applications
 
 These are considered for a variety of purposes and in some 
 cases they qualify for special mortgage schemes which have a 
 free application fee. Most types of further advance applications 
 require additional legal work to be undertaken by the Society 
 for which there will be an additional administrative fee of 
 £50. If it is necessary for your own Solicitor to become 
 involved in the setting up of a Deed of Further Charge, you 
 will be responsible for all costs incurred by your Solicitor.
 
 10. CAPITAL REPAYMENTS
 
 A capital repayment is a payment of at least £500 
 (or such other amount as we may specify in the future) which 
 can be paid to the Society in addition to the monthly payment 
 and any other amounts due and payable under the conditions of 
 the mortgage. A capital repayment can be made at any time but 
 if it is made during the period of a special mortgage scheme, 
 then early repayment charges will also be payable as set out 
 in your mortgage offer. After making a capital repayment you 
 can ask the Society to recalculate your normal monthly payments 
 or you can leave the payments as they are which will have the 
 effect of reducing the remaining mortgage term.
 
 11. EARLY REPAYMENT CHARGES
 
Early repayment charges are made by the Society which specifically 
 relate to the special schemes eg fixed, discounted, cashback 
 or capped mortgages. The early repayment charges will be set 
 out in your mortgage offer. The Society also has a redemption 
 charge during the life of the mortgage which is shown in the 
 enclosed Tariff of Mortgage Charges and which will be explained 
 to you by the customer adviser.
 
 12. ADDITIONAL MORTGAGE SECURITY FEE (DOMESTIC MORTGAGE INDEMNITY 
 - DMI)
 
 This is paid by the Society. It means that if the amount 
 you are borrowing is more than the maximum loan we would normally 
 make on the property (ie 80% of the property's valuation or 
 purchase price, whichever is the lower), a higher lending fee 
 (or additional mortgage security fee) will usually be paid to 
 an insurance company. This is an indemnity insurance for us 
 and will not protect you. If we do purchase an indemnity insurance 
 this in no way affects your liability and your promise to repay 
 all monies owing including any arrears, interest and legal fees. 
 We may claim on the insurance company in the event that the 
 property is taken into possession and sold by us for less than 
 the amount you owe. However, the insurance company has the right 
 to recover from you any monies paid to us under the indemnity 
 insurance. We can also seek to recover on our own behalf or 
 on behalf of the insurers all the money that you owe us at the 
 same time as recovering the balance of our loss which was not 
 covered by the indemnity insurance.
 
 It is important to realise that: 
 
 
 
 
 such insurance will not protect you if your property 
 is subsequently taken into possession and sold for less 
 than the amount you owe
 
 you will remain liable to pay all money owing including 
 any interest and any other charges
 
 if a claim is paid to us under the insurance the 
 insurers generally have the right to recover this amount 
 from you.
 
 13. CONFIDENTIALITY
 
 
 
 
Under the Data Protection Act you have a right of access to 
 see the personal information which the Society holds about you. 
 We observe strict confidentiality about customers' personal 
 and financial affairs, and will not pass any information to 
 third parties without our member's consent other than in four 
 exceptional areas:-
 
 a) where we are legally compelled 
 to do so
 
 b) where there is a duty to the 
 public to disclose
 
 c) where our interest requires 
 disclosure
 
 d) where disclosure is made at 
 your request and with your consent.
 
 The declarations you will sign in the mortgage application form 
 will give us your consent to send your information to third 
 parties.
 
 Data held by us on our systems will be held during the life 
 of the mortgage account and after it has been redeemed. You 
 can always let us know if the information held by us has changed 
 so that we can ensure that the information we hold is always 
 up to date and accurate. If you require information on your 
 file please write to the Society at its Principal Office. If 
 you require information about your data and how we use it please 
 ask for our leaflet "Your Personal Information".
 
 14. CREDIT REFERENCE AGENCIES
 
 Information about your mortgage debts owed to us may be 
 disclosed to Credit Reference Agencies where:-
 
 a) You have fallen behind with 
 your payments; and
 
 b) The amount owed is not in dispute; 
 and
 
 c) You have not made proposals 
 satisfactory to us for repayment of your debt following formal 
 demand; and
 
 d) You have been given at least 
 28 days notice of our intention to disclose.
 
 15. FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES
 
 If you find yourself in financial difficulties you should 
 let us know as soon as possible. The Society will do everything 
 they can to help you during your period of difficulty. The Society 
 follows the Council of Mortgage Lenders Statement of Practice 
 on handling arrears and possessions and will also, with your 
 request and consent, liaise with Debt Counselling Organisations, 
 for example, Citizens Advice Bureau, Money Advice Centres or 
 Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
 
 Borrowers receiving mortgage interest assistance from the 
 Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)
 
 If you are receiving assistance from the D.W.P. with your 
 mortgage payments you should be aware of the following points.
 
 The D.W.P. pays interest at a standard rate which is determined 
 by the Government. This rate of interest may not be the same 
 as the rate of interest charged to your account by us. As this 
 may result in a shortfall between the amount charged and the 
 amount payable by the D.W.P., you must be careful to ensure 
 that this shortfall is made up on your mortgage account. You 
 must advise the D.W.P. of all interest rate changes on your 
 mortgage account which we notify to you. This will help to ensure 
 that your mortgage interest is not overpaid by the D.W.P. and 
 that overpayments are not claimed back from you. You should 
 check that the D.W.P. pay you the correct amount, however, they 
 will not normally pay interest on arrears.
 
 The D.W.P. will not pay for Endowment Policy premiums, capital 
 repayments or Property Insurance premiums. Please speak to us 
 about these payments.
 
 You should advise the D.W.P. if you receive payments from a 
 Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance Policy as this may effect 
 any payments the D.W.P. may make.
 
 16. INFORMATION ON POSSESSION AND ASSOCIATED COSTS
 
 If we intend to take possession of your property, we will 
 tell you that this information may be disclosed to Credit Reference 
 Agencies and that your name may be passed to other lenders by 
 being placed on the Council of Mortgage Lenders' Possessions 
 Register.
 
 17. GUARANTORS
 
 If you want us to accept a Guarantee or other security from 
 someone for your liabilities, you may be asked to consent to 
 the disclosure by us of your confidential information to the 
 person giving the Guarantee or other security, or their legal 
 adviser. We will also:-
 
 a) require them to take independent 
 legal advice to make sure that they understand their commitment 
 and the potential consequences of their decision. All the documents 
 they will be asked to sign will contain this requirement as 
 a clear and prominent notice.
 
 b) Advise them that by giving the 
 Guarantee or other security they may become liable instead of, 
 or as well as you.
 
 c) Advise them what the limit of 
 their liability will be. An Unlimited Guarantee will not be 
 taken.
 
 18. METHODS OF CALCULATING INTEREST ON MORTGAGES
 
 i) Interest charged on an 
 annual basis. If your chosen mortgage product states that 
 interest is charged on an annual basis, this means that interest 
 will be charged initially on the mortgage advance from the date 
 that it is released, through to the Society's year end on 30th 
 November. This interest will be debited to the mortgage account 
 on the date that the advance is released. Thereafter, on the 
 1st December each year, a full year's interest will be charged 
 on the balance brought forward at the close of business on the 
 Society's year end, 30th November. This interest charge will 
 be varied during the year to take account of changes in the 
 rate of interest which we will advise to you.
 
 ii) Daily Interest. If your 
 chosen mortgage product states that interest is to be charged 
 on a daily basis, interest will be calculated from the date 
 of the advance through to the end of the month of the release 
 of the advance. At the end of the month in which the advance 
 is released, the mortgage account will be debited with this 
 first month's interest. Thereafter, interest is calculated for 
 each day the advance is outstanding, based on the account balance 
 on that day, and the account is debited at the end of each month 
 with the accrued daily interest for that month.
 
 iii) Interest for the month 
 of completion. Interest charges from the date of the mortgage 
 advance up to the end of the month of the advance are not included 
 in the first monthly payment due to the Society. You will be 
 advised of the amount of this interest so that you may make 
 a separate payment for this should you wish or, alternatively, 
 it will be added to your account in which case it will attract 
 further interest charges.
 
 19. INTEREST RATE CHANGES
 
 The interest rates which apply to your mortgage may change 
 from time to time. Your Mortgage Illustration will tell you 
 whether the product you have chosen has a daily or annual interest 
 calculation facility. It will also tell you if the rate of interest 
 is variable or fixed, and for what period. When we change the 
 interest rates we will tell you about the changes at the earliest 
 opportunity by either:-
 
 a) Letter or other personal notice
 
 b) Notice/Leaflets in our Principal 
 Office and all our Branch Offices and by advertisements in two 
 daily newspapers of our choice.
 
 The change will not take place earlier than the date on which 
 the notice of the alteration is first exhibited at our Principal 
 Office. If we do not write to you individually we will tell 
 you the interest rate you pay annually on your statement. If 
 we omit, accidentally, to exhibit any notice or place any advertisement 
 or give individual notice this will not effect change in interest 
 rates being made.
 
 At the date of printing this leaflet we currently advertise 
 in the Coventry Evening Telegraph and the Leicester Mercury.
 
 When we change our Standard Variable Rate of Interest it will 
 apply generally to all our customers.
 
 20. CHANGES TO TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 
 Occasionally terms and conditions may have to be changed. 
 We will tell you how you will be notified of these changes and 
 will give you at least 30 days before any change takes effect. 
 If there have been significant changes in any one year, we will 
 give or send you a copy of the new Terms and Conditions or a 
 summary of the charges.
 
 21. COMPLAINTS
 
 We aim to provide high standards of service. However, there 
 may be occasion when you feel that you may have a complaint, 
 in which case our staff will try to resolve the problem. Whilst 
 we hope we can resolve any problems through these internal procedures, 
 we are also a member of the Financial Ombudsman Service to which 
 customers can appeal after internal procedures have been exhausted. 
 Written details of our Complaints Procedure and of the Financial 
 Ombudsman Service will be provided on request from any of our 
 Branches or from Principal Office. We will respond to your initial 
 complaint within two working days. We aim to answer your complaint 
 within 10 working days but please recognise that more complex 
 issues may take up to 28 days to resolve before we notify you 
 of our findings.
 
 22. MEMBERSHIP RIGHTS
 
 The first named applicant in the Mortgage Application form 
 will be the Society's member with borrowing membership rights. 
 The name provided in the Mortgage Application form must be in 
 the same style as on any other account held with the Society 
 to ensure that the Society does not provide duplicate mailings 
 to you.
 
 The registered address for service of any notice will be the 
 security address in the Mortgage Application form. If your mortgage 
 has been granted for commercial purposes the registered address, 
 unless you have notified us of another address for this purpose, 
 will be the address provided in the Mortgage Application form 
 under the heading "Present Address".
 
 Membership will cease if the Society exercises its power of 
 sale, or the Society takes possession of the property.
 
 The first named applicant in the Mortgage Application form shall 
 be the representative joint borrower if there is more than one 
 borrower. If you wish to change the person who is the representative 
 joint borrower, the change will take effect when the Society's 
 records are amended.
 
 YOUR HOME WILL BE TAKEN AS SECURITY FOR ANY LOAN ADVANCED TO 
 YOU BY THE SOCIETY.
 
 YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE 
 OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About 
 Us | What's 
 New | Branches 
 | Investments 
 | Mortgages 
 | Contact 
 Us
 
 
 
