
	
Scarborough Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 	 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
	 
	 
 
	 
 
	 Training Manager 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Scarborough 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Jenny Payling Assistant Human Resources Manager 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 £25K - £30K plus car and financial sector benefits 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 To identify, develop and facilitate our strategic and organisational training needs in line with business objectives. You will be responsible for the day to day management of a team of staff to design, deliver and produce a range of in-house courses. In addition, you should have at least five years' management level experience delivering training programmes within a customer-focused environment. Corporate CIPD membership is essential.
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mr
	 Mrs
	 Miss
	 Dr
	 Other
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
 
	 
	
	I/We acknowledge and consent that the Society will hold personal information 
	about me/us on its records and will use such information to process this 
	request for details of its accounts for the purposes set out at paragraphs 
	1 and 2 below to administer any accounts I/we may open with the Society. 
	I/We understand that under the Data Protection Act 1998, I/we am/are entitled 
	to know what information is held about me/us and ask for any inaccurate 
	details to be amended.
	
	
	
	
	1.
	
	 
	
	
	The Society may wish to supply me/us by post, telephone, e-mail or 
	in other ways with details of its products and services which may be 
	of interest to me/us. The Society may also wish to disclose personal 
	information about me/us to market research organisations conducting 
	confidential market research on behalf of the Society. I/We understand 
	that if I/we do not wish to receive such details or permit such disclosures to be 
	made, I/we may so instruct the Society by ticking the box on the left.
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	2.
	
	 
	
	
	The Society may wish to disclose personal information about me/us 
	to companies in its Group and to associated companies who may use it 
	to tell me/us about products and services which may be of interest to 
	me/us. I/We understand that I/we can ask the Society for a list of such 
	companies at any time. I/We understand that if I/we do not wish such 
	disclosures to be made, I/we can prevent disclosure by ticking the 
	box on the left.	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
 	
	 	
 
 
 
	Written quotations are available on request.
	
	
	Applicants must be aged 18 or over. In all cases the property will be security for the loan.
	Suitable life assurance may be required. All loans and benefits subject to status.
 
 
	The Society is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	Mortgages are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
 
 
 Representative only of the Legal & General Marketing Group,	 members of which are
 regulated by the Financial Services Authority, for the purposes of making introductions
 to other representatives for recommending, advising on and selling life assurance and
 investment products bearing Legal & General's name.
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
	 	
	 	Find out about our lastest mortgage offer
	 	
	 	
	 	
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
