
	
	
	
	Chelsea Building Society
	
	
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 Guaranteed Interest Rate 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
 
Our current rates of interest 
 Chelsea Guaranteed Bond (3rd Issue)
 How much can I invest?
 Access to your money when you need it
 Apply Now
 
OUR CURRENT RATES 
 OF INTEREST (with effect from 8th December 2001) 
 
	
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Annual rates 
 
 
 Monthly rates 
 
 
 
 
 Balance 
 
 
 Gross&#134;/AER*
 
 
 Net p.a.&#134;
 
 
 Gross p.a.&#134;
 
 
 Net p.a. &#134;
 
 
 AER*
 
 
 
 
 
 £2,500 Plus 
 
 
 
 
 4.25% 
 
 
 3.40% 
 4.17% 
 
 
 3.34% 
 
 
 4.25% 
 
 
 
Interest will not be paid during a period when the account balance falls 
 below £2,500.
 
	 Chelsea Guaranteed Bond 
 (3rd Issue)
 Offers you an attractive variable rate of interest which is guaranteed not 
 to fall below the Bank of England Base Rate before 1st July 2003 (see terms 
 for details).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Choice of annual or monthly interest - annual interest is paid on 1st 
 October. Monthly interest is also variable and pays a rate which is approximately 
 equivalent to the annual gross&#134;/AER*, if added to the account each 
 month.
 
Interest can be added to your account (where it immediately starts earning 
 more interest), transferred to another Chelsea account or to your bank 
 account.
 
 
And for those unexpected events, the Chelsea Guaranteed Bond (3rd Issue) 
 features an immediate withdrawal facility - see Access 
 to your money when you need it.
 
 
	 How much can I invest? 
 
 You will need a minimum of £2,500 to open the account.
 
You can then invest up to a maximum investment of £500,000, provided 
 that your total investment in this and all other Chelsea accounts does 
 not exceed £1 million.
 
 
	 Access to your money when 
 you need it
 Before 1st July 2003, by giving us 60 days' written notice, you can make 
 penalty-free withdrawals.
 
Or, you can have immediate access to your money, before 1st July 2003, 
 subject to 60 days' loss of interest on the amount withdrawn.
 
From 2nd July 2003, you have instant, penalty-free access to your money.
 
Up to £250 in cash or £5,000 by cheque may be withdrawn immediately. 
 Larger sums may be withdrawn by cheque within a few days.
 
Withdrawals during the guarantee period may reduce the AER*.
 
 
Apply now
 
 
* The Annual Equivalent Rate (AER) illustrates what 
 the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added to the account 
 each year. 
 
&#134; Subject to the required Inland Revenue certification 
 interest will be paid gross. In the absence of valid certification and 
 for those investors not ordinarily resident in the UK for tax purposes, 
 interest will be paid net at the applicable rate of tax, currently 20%. 
 Some or all of this tax may be reclaimed from the Inland Revenue by non-taxpayers. 
 The net figures quoted are illustrative assuming liability at the applicable 
 tax level of 20%.
 
The investments and savings information published on 
 this website should be read in conjunction with the Society's most recent 
 Summary Financial Statement to be found in the section headed "About 
 Chelsea" and the Information for Chelsea Investors section.
 
Chelsea Building Society subscribes to the Banking 
 Code, a copy of which is available on request.
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
