
Darlington Building Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cashback 
 Mortgages 
 
 
 1. 
 The 
 Cashback Mortgage is only available if the advance does not 
 exceed 85% of the valuation of the property (80% maximum LTV 
 for remortgages). Applicants must take out Homeplan Buildings 
 and Contents Insurance with the Society and this insurance must 
 remain in force for 3 years following the date of completion. 
 
 
 2. 
 Existing members of the Society on 31st May, 2001 are eligible to apply for a cashback of 4.50% of the initial sum advanced (£4,500 maximum). Non-members of the Society at that date are eligible to apply for a cashback of 3.50% of the initial sum advanced (£3,500 maximum). 
 
 
 3. 
 
 The Cashback sum will be forwarded to you following 
 completion of your Cashback Mortgage, and will be based on the initial sum advanced. No cashback will be payable on any sum retained and released at a later date. 
 
 
 4. 
 
 A property valuation fee will not be payable providing the property 
 is situated in County Durham, Tees Valley or North Yorkshire 
 as defined by the Society. 
 
 
 5. 
 
 
 The interest rate charged will be the Society's basic variable 
 interest rate. 
 
 
 6. 
 
 Within 3 years of the completion date, capital repayments can 
 only be made from the proceeds of maturing life policies which 
 are Assigned to the Society. IN THE EVENT OF THE MORTGAGE ACCOUNT 
 BEING REPAID WITHIN THREE YEARS FROM THE DATE OF COMPLETION, 
 THE SOCIETY WILL REQUIRE REPAYMENT OF THE CASHBACK SUM. THIS 
 PAYMENT IS IN ADDITION TO ANY OTHER SUMS PAYABLE UNDER THE TERMS 
 AND CONDITIONS OF THE MORTGAGE. 
 
 
 7. 
 
 The benefits of a Cashback Mortgage are only available to borrowers 
 who make prompt monthly repayments. This means that, if you 
 fall behind with your monthly payments during the first 3 years 
 following completion, you will cease to qualify for the benefit 
 and the Society reserves the right to serve notice on you that 
 the special terms no longer apply and your mortgage account 
 will be debited with the Cashback sum. Your repayments will 
 be increased accordingly. 
 
 
 8. 
 
 Borrowers 
 who wish to purchase a different property, which they will occupy 
 following completion, may do so if they take out a new basic 
 variable rate mortgage with Darlington Building Society for 
 at least the full balance then outstanding of this loan. In 
 these circumstances the penalty mentioned in condition 6 (above) 
 will no longer apply. 
 
 
 9. 
 
 Consideration of an application does not commit the Society 
 to make a formal offer of a mortgage. 
 
 
 10. 
 
 In the event of cancellation of an application the benefit of 
 the Cashback Mortgage cannot be transferred to any other application. 
 
 
 
 11. 
 
 
 
Where 
 the property to be mortgaged is outside the Society's normal 
 operating area, a valuation fee is payable and a reservation fee of £199 is payable on application. This fee is only refundable if the Society discontinues this particular cashback mortgage.
 
 
 12. 
 
 
 
The minimum loan is £20,000 and mortgages must complete by 31st October, 2001.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cashback 
 Mortgages are subject to the Rules of the Society together 
 with the Mortgage Conditions (1995) and the special Terms 
 and Conditions listed above. In the event of a conflict between 
 the Mortgage Conditions and the Special Conditions, the latter 
 will prevail. Cashback Mortgages are only available to borrowers 
 who will occupy the mortgaged property following completion. 
 A deposit is required. Mortgage applicants must be aged 18 
 or over. All loans subject to status and satisfactory valuation. 
 All loans secured against property. Life assurance is usually 
 required. Additional security may be required, e.g. a Higher 
 Loan Indemnity. Written quotations are available on request 
 from any branch of the Society or its Principal Office.
 
 YOUR 
 HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE 
 OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
 
 Darlington Building Society subscribes to The Mortgage Code and offers all available levels of service under the code. 
 
 
 
 
 TYPICAL 
 EXAMPLE: 
 
 
 
 
 
(Interest Only
 basis) basic variable rate 6.19% 6.5% APR. 
 
Mortgage 
 Term 25 yrs 
 
Purchase 
 Price £50,000.00 
 
Loan Amount 
 £40,000.00 
 
Interest 
 £61,899.00 
 
Payable 
 by 300 monthly payments of £206.33 
 
Accrued 
 Interest (see notes) £112.52 
 
Reservation 
 Fee Nil 
 
Solicitors 
 Mortgage Charges £122.00 
 
Valuation 
 Fee Nil
Electronic Funds Transfer £25.00 
 Sealing Fee (on redemption) £60.00 
 
Release 
 of Deeds (on redemption) £40.00 
 
Homeplan 
 Insurance Premium £225.00 
 
Insurance 
 Premium Tax £9.00 
 
Total 
 Amount Payable £102,258.52
 
 
 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 
 
 This 
 mortgage is available on an interest only or repayment basis. For 
 the purpose of this example a suitable Repayment Vehicle e.g. Endowment Policy must 
 be taken out before completion of the loan. For a couple, both 
 aged 30 next birthday, both in good health and non-smokers, 
 the monthly premium would be £67.62 on a low cost with profits 
 policy. These premiums would be paid in addition to the mortgage 
 interest and it is assumed that at the end of the mortgage term 
 the policy proceeds would be used to repay the amount of the 
 mortgage (£40,000), however the value of the policy at that 
 time cannot be guaranteed. For illustrative purposes, the monthly 
 repayment takes account of basic rate income tax but the total 
 amount payable includes the gross interest payable. APR and 
 typical example do not take into account any Cashback sum and 
 assume a gross basic variable interest rate of 6.19% for the 
 whole of the mortgage term. APR's are variable. In addition, 
 on completion, you will be required to pay Land Registry Fees 
 which, in this example, would be £70 on a purchase or £40 on 
 a remortgage. You will also be required to pay your Solicitors 
 charges for acting for you in the purchase of the property. 
 Accrued interest represents interest charged for the month of 
 completion. The example assumes the mortgage completed on 15th 
 November, 2001. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
