
Important Information
 
 
 TO 
 RECEIVE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RELATING TO CUMBERLAND CASHBACK MORTGAGES, 
 CLICK HERE 
 
 
 
 
 
 Typical Example: Example assumes a capital and interest mortgage of £50,000 
 over 25 years and is based on a property value of £75,000. This example 
 also assumes that our base variable mortgage rate will apply. The rate at 
 which the Cashback is offered is currently 7.29% APR 7.7% variable. 
 The monthly capital and interest mortgage payment assuming current rates 
 would be £366.93 for the full term of the loan. Other payments that are 
 required at the start of the loan include a first capital and interest repayment 
 of £195.70 if the loan begins on the 15th of the month. When the loan is 
 paid off there is a redemption charge of £40.00 and a deeds production fee 
 of £25.00. This means that the total amount payable on the loan is £110,364.70. 
 On repayment of your loan, interest will be charged up to the end of 
 the month in which it is repaid. If you decide to repay your loan in full 
 or in part within six years from the date of completion of your loan 
 or the Society takes possession of your property and sells it within this 
 period a percentage of your cashback will have to be repaid (this is called 
 an early repayment fee), the amount repayable will depend on the length 
 of time you have had this loan. If for example you received the maximum 
 possible cashback of 5.25% the maximum amount repayable will be 5.25% of 
 the amount you repay, e.g. if you made an early repayment of £10,000, within 
 the first three years, the early repayment fee would be £525. Details of 
 early repayment fees are given in the product sheet you will be asked to 
 sign when you make your mortgage application. In addition if you repay your 
 loan in full or in part within the first twelve months from the date 
 of completion of your loan the Society will charge an amount equal to 3 
 months gross interest at the Society's base variable mortgage rate eg. if 
 you made an early repayment of £10,000, within the first twelve months, 
 and our base variable mortgage rate was 7.29%, the extra interest charged 
 would be £182.25. This is payable in addition to the early repayment fee. 
 Additional payments of up to £100 per month can, however, be made each month 
 without having to pay an early repayment fee. The early repayment fee will 
 not be payable if you are moving home and simultaneously taking out a new 
 loan, at the Society's base variable mortgage rate, without the benefit 
 of an interest discount or other incentive. The amount of the new loan must 
 be for at least 90% of the existing Cashback loan amount, which is not repaid 
 (in full or in part) during the remainder of the six years from the 
 date of completion of the loan on which the Cashback was given. All 
 mortgages are subject to status and valuation and are only available to 
 persons aged 18 years and over. Minimum loan £20,000. Minimum term 12 years. 
 A high percentage loan fee may be payable. Whilst the Society believes Cashback 
 is non-taxable any future tax liability will be that of the borrower. The 
 amount of Cashback will depend on the amount, type and percentage of loan. 
 Customers may be able to take advantage of free Mortgage Payment Protection 
 Insurance for the first 6 months. Full details can be found in our leaflet 
 Mortgage Payment Protection.The maximum loan is 90% of the current valuation 
 for re-mortgages (75% if for capital raising purposes). The property will 
 be required as security for a mortgage. Not available with any other offer. 
 Full details and a written quotation from Cumberland House, Castle Street, 
 Carlisle CA3 8RX. Telephone (01228) 541341. www.cumberland.co.uk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 YOUR 
 HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR 
 OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT. 
 
 
 
 
 
