
 
 Coventry Building Society - Mortgages
 
 	
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You can choose between capital & interest repayments, interest only, or a mixture of the two.
Capital and Interest Mortgages 
Sometimes called repayment mortgages - your monthly payments go towards paying off both the interest and the original amount you borrowed (the capital). Keep up all your payments and you're certain to clear your mortgage at the end of its term. We believe this provides the best, low risk option for most borrowers.
Interest Only or Investment Backed Mortgages
You only pay mortgage interest to us each month. The loan is repaid at the end of the mortgage term from the proceeds of an investment, such as an endowment, pension, PEP or ISA. Premiums are paid to an investment or insurance company.
We will accept a number of interest only mortgage options, but remember that the value of any investment is subject to market performance, and can go down as well as up, so there is no guarantee that the mortgage will be repaid in full at the end of the term.
We may require details of any endowment, ISA, pension policy or PEP being used to pay off the mortgage.
Endowment, ISA and PEP Mortgages
As well as the interest payment on your loan, you pay a monthly premium into the investment product chosen. Existing investments such as PEPs can also be used as part of the fund.
At the end of the term, the fund is used to repay the mortgage with the potential for a tax-free lump sum left over.
In most cases, an endowment policy provides automatic life cover. However, we strongly advise you to consider separate life cover if you are saving into an ISA to repay your mortgage. 
Pension-linked Mortgages
These are suitable for the self-employed or those not in a company pension scheme. They are similar to an endowment mortgage, but with the monthly premium paid towards a personal pension plan. Premiums are invested into a tax-free fund. When you retire, part of the fund will be used to repay the mortgage, whilst the rest may provide a regular pension for you. Repayment of the mortgage depends on the growth in the value of your policy.
You should consider your retirement needs and repayment of the mortgage when you decide on the monthly premiums. If the pension policy does not provide life cover, this should be arranged separately.
We may need to check any existing life assurance or pension policy to ensure enough cover exists to meet the mortgage commitment, and that the policy itself is acceptable.
Note: You are responsible for ensuring that there are adequate arrangements in place to repay your mortgage. If you don’t, serious financial consequences could result in the loss of your home. If you are thinking of changing your repayment method, or want to borrow additional money on an interest only mortgage, we suggest that you contact one of our Norwich Union Financial Consultants. We believe that a repayment mortgage provides the best, low-risk option for most borrowers.
Note: Early repayment of a mortgage or early surrender of an investment or changes in personal circumstances can have adverse financial consequences, depending on the particular type of mortgage or investment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
©2002 Coventry Building Society
 
