
	
	
	
	Welcome to Newcastle Building Society
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Message from Robert Hollinshead our Chief 
 Executive
 Newcastle Building Society recognises three key groups of 
 people who have a stake in the future of the Society. These stakeholders 
 are our employees, the communities in which we operate and perhaps 
 most importantly you, our members and customers. Our commitment 
 to remaining a traditional building society provides us with a clear 
 vision as we enter the new millennium. We are confident that this 
 commitment will ensure that we can continue to meet your needs. 
 
Whether you are an investing member or a borrower, we do hope that 
 this will be the start of a long and happy relationship with us. 
 It is extremely important to us that you receive the level of service 
 you expect from one of the leading mutual building societies in 
 the country. These pages are designed to inform you about the level 
 of service you can expect from the Newcastle.
 
 
 
 
 
Dealing 
 With The Newcastle
 We feel strongly that our customers should be able to decide how 
 they wish to deal with us. As a result you are free to choose whichever 
 of the following methods you feel most comfortable with or find most convenient. 
 
 
In Person
 We are committed to maintaining a network 
 of branches and we currently have over 52 nationwide. Whenever you 
 visit our branches our assistants will be delighted to offer you a friendly 
 and helpful service. Our branch opening hours are 9am-5pm, Monday to Friday 
 and 9am-12 noon on Saturdays.
 
By Phone
 If you prefer the advantages offered by the telephone then you 
 may find the service provided by our comprehensive call centre based at 
 our Principal Office in Newcastle, to your liking. Our opening hours are 
 - 8am - 8pm Mon - Fri, 9am - 5pm Sat and 10am - 4pm Sun. Alternatively 
 you can arrange for us to call you back at a convenient time. To do this 
 click here.
 
 
 
 
Online
 NewcastleNet Interactive is a service dedicated to customers 
 who prefer the convenience of being able to manage their finances 
 online, via internet or in the future digital TV. In addition NewcastleNet 
 Interactive also offers a thoroughly safe and secure environment 
 for conducting financial transactions. You can access our website 
 at: 
 
http://www.newcastle.co.uk/online/index.htm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equal Opportunities
 We are committed to the development of policies and practices to 
 provide for genuine equality of opportunity for everyone regardless of sex, 
 race, disability or marital status. 
 
 Your rights as a member of Newcastle Building 
 Society 
 
Who is a member?
 Most people taking out a mortgage or opening a savings account 
 with us become a member of the Newcastle Building Society. 
 
As a member of the Newcastle Building Society you are more than just 
 a customer. As a part-owner of the Society, you are entitled to a voice 
 in its affairs and the way it is run.
 
 
 
 
 
Who owns the Building Society?
 A building society is a mutual institution which is owned 
 by its members. Most customers of a building society are also members 
 of the society. Unlike a public limited company, such as a bank, 
 a mutual building society is not owned by third party equity shareholders. 
 This means that a mutual building society does not have any other 
 set of owners, separate from its customers, to influence or direct 
 its business.
 
As the owners of the society, the members have certain
 
 
 
 voting rights through which they can influence the affairs of the society. 
 
What rights do members have?
 Members have a range of rights. The most important of these are 
 described below. 
 
General Meetings
 Members are entitled to receive notice of, take part in and vote 
 at the Society's Annual General Meeting (AGM). The AGM must be held within 
 four months of the end of the Society's financial year. (For the majority 
 of societies with a financial year ending in December, the AGM would be 
 held in the following April.) The AGM is held to receive the annual accounts 
 and directors' report, to consider the auditors' report on the accounts, 
 to appoint the auditors and to elect the directors. Changes to the society's 
 rules or to its memorandum would often be considered at an AGM. Members 
 can ask questions and make comments - they may also ask for the agenda 
 to include a resolution to be discussed and voted on at the AGM, provided 
 they are qualified under the society's rules and have enough support from 
 other members. 
 
Occasionally a society will organise a Special General Meeting to discuss 
 a specific topic. Members can ask the society to organise such a meeting. 
 Normally at least 500 members who have been members for two years or more, 
 can require the board to hold such a meeting. The society may also require 
 that each member requesting the meeting pay a deposit of £25.
 
Voting
 Building societies operate on the principle of "one member, one 
 vote". This means that members have one vote each regardless of the size 
 of their savings or mortgage. If you are both a borrowing and saving member 
 with the society you will normally have just one vote.
 
Members can vote on proposals put forward at general meetings. Members 
 unable to attend a meeting can appoint proxies to attend and vote on their 
 behalf; your society will tell you how to obtain a proxy form.
 
Members can vote on any proposal changes to the memorandum and the rules 
 of the society. The memorandum describes those activities by which the 
 society governs its relationship with its members. They can be amended 
 only by a decision of the members at a general meeting
 
Election of Directors
 Members elect the directors of the society. All directors must 
 be investing members of the society Typically, a society will have a board 
 of between 7 and 15 directors. The board takes the major decisions in 
 the running of the society (such as deciding on the overall levels of 
 interest rates, the products and services to be offered and the overall 
 business strategy) and also appoints the senior managers. Directors usually 
 serve three year terms; they may then stand for re-election. Your society 
 will let you know when directors are due to retire.
 
Members can nominate candidates and stand for election as directors. 
 Directors' responsibilities are onerous and complex, and they must take 
 account of the interest of all the investing and borrowing members. Members 
 therefore need to consider carefully before deciding to stand for election 
 to the board or nominating a candidate. A member standing for election 
 can ask the society to circulate an election address to the members of 
 the society. A society will provide details of the duties of directors 
 and the nomination and election procedures to any member on request.
 
Information
 Members are entitled to receive a range of information, including: 
 * a copy of the society's rules and memorandum (on request) * a copy of 
 the annual summary financial statements on the society's business (which 
 is sent to members before the AGM, and also when a new account is opened) 
 * a copy of the detailed annual report and accounts (on request) * notice 
 of the AGM Societies must also provide a range of financial business information 
 before asking members to vote on a merger proposal or on a proposal to 
 transfer the society's business to a company.
 
Do members have rights?
 Savings members with less than £100 in their account, borrowing 
 members with mortgages of less than £100 and members under the age 
 of 18 have the right only to receive information on request - they cannot 
 vote, nominate directors, or speak at AGM's for example.
 
Charitable Foundation
 
The Newcastle Building Society wants to avoid disruption to its business 
 caused by speculators. As a result all new customers opening accounts 
 are required to agree to assign any windfall benefits to which they might 
 become entitled on a future conversion or take-over of the Society. The 
 assignment will be in favour of the Community Foundation, one of the leading 
 community foundations in the UK. The agreement will be for a period of 
 5 years.
 
Handling 
 Customer Complaints
 
Unfortunately, mistakes are occasionally made by us and when this happens, 
 we want to hear about it so we can explain things and put them right. 
 A leaflet entitled 'Customer Complaints' provides full details of our 
 complaints procedure and is available by contacting us on 08457 344 345 
 or click here and 
 let us call you back. Alternatively, click 
 here to view a copy of the leaflet.
 
 
You 
 can count on the Newcastle
 
We hope that the information above is clear, however if you have any 
 queries whatsoever please do not hesitate to contact us. Our staff will 
 be delighted to help you. We hope that our relationship will be a long 
 and mutually beneficial one.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
