
	
	
	
	Mortgage Code
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	TERMS OF BUSINESS (Mortgage)
	
The Mortgage Code is a voluntary Code to which the Marsden Building Society subscribes.
	
	The Code sets minimum standards of good lending and advisory practice to be followed by all lenders and mortgage intermediaries. A summary leaflet of the Code is enclosed with this fact sheet explaining what you can expect from the Society or alternatively, the full Mortgage Code leaflet can be obtained upon request from any of the Society's branches.
	
	The Society is registered with the Mortgage Code Compliance Board under registration number 5385174
	
	Under the terms of the Code there are three levels of service available. These are:
	
	a) Full advice and recommendation
	
	b) Information on different types of mortgage products available to allow you to make a choice
	
	c) Information on a single product only, where no advice is given.
	
	The Society currently offers service level
	
	b) Information on different types of mortgage products available to allow you to make a choice
	
	and service level
	
	c) Information on a single product only, where no advice is given.
	
	The Society does not provide service level
	
	a) Full advice and a recommendation.
	
	During our initial meeting, we will be providing you with sufficient information to make an informed choice regarding your mortgage or, if you have already selected a mortgage product, information on that product alone.
	
	We will also provide you with information relevant to your mortgage needs, covering such items as an explanation of the main repayment methods and the implications of taking out a mortgage - a full information list can be found in Section 3.2 of the Mortgage Code.
	
	Once you have chosen a suitable mortgage product, we will confirm your decision in writing with a full product quotation, details of the information provided to you and the matters discussed during the interview. You should keep this as it will be an important record of our discussions. Details of the loan will also be confirmed in the Society's formal mortgage offer.
	
	We will treat all your personal information as private and confidential (even when you are no longer a customer) except where we are permitted by Law or where disclosure is made at your request or with your consent in relation to arranging your mortgage. You have the right of access under the Data Protection Act 1998 to your personal records held on our files.
	
	The Mortgage Code Compliance Board (MCCB) regulates the Mortgage Code to which we subscribe. As part of MCCB's duties we may be asked to provide them with access to our customer records in order that they may carry out an audit of our activities.
	
	Our aim is to provide you with a first class professional and confidential service. We have internal procedures for handling complaints fairly and speedily and, should a complaint arise, in the first instance you should contact your Mortgage Representative who will make every effort to resolve the issue immediately. If a satisfactory outcome is not reached you should contact our Complaints Officer at Principal Office who will provide you with details of our formal complaints procedure. Thereafter, should the complaint not be resolved to your satisfaction, you have the right to consult the Financial Ombudsman Service. Full details of the Society's Complaints procedure and useful contact addresses are contained within the Society's Mortgage Guide, copies of which are available on request.
	
	Principal Office 6-20 Russell Street Nelson Lancashire BB9 7NJ
	Telephone (01282) 440500 Facsimile (01282) 440550
	E-mail info@marsdenbs.co.uk Internet www.marsdenbs.co.uk
	
	Written quotations are available on request, subject to status.
	A first charge over the property will be required as security for a mortgage.
	All mortgages are subject to status, valuation and a minimum age of 18.
	Marsden Building Society is a member of the Financial Ombudsman Scheme and the General Insurance Standards Council. The Society has an internal complaints procedure, details of which are available on request. Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The Society subscribes to the Banking and Mortgage Codes, copies of which are available on request. 
	Marsden Building Society introduces to the Norwich Union Marketing Group (NUMG) for life assurance, pensions and investments. 
	The Society and NUMG are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
	YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
