
Skipton Building Society - isas - tessa only isa
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	isa portfolio 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	ISA Portfolio
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Apply Now
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Request a Pack
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Guide
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Jargon Buster
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	ISA Q+A
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Rates
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Tax-free interest - plus a bonus interest rate
	
	
	The Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA offers you the potential to earn up to 4.35% gross p.a. (4.34% AER). Your variable rate interest is paid at 3.10% gross/AER, i.e. with no tax deducted at source, and is added to your account at midnight on 5th April each year. Plus you'll also receive a bonus interest rate of 1.25% gross p.a. (1.24% AER) two years after you opened the account, provided you don't make any withdrawals in that period and that you make a minimum of 10 monthly subscriptions each year. So, you'll have the potential to earn up to 4.35% gross p.a. (4.34% AER).
	 
	
	
	
	
	How does the Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA work?
	
	
	The Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA rewards regular savers. It allows you to save between £50 and £250 per month - tax free! You need just £50 to open an account and you can save between £50 and £250 a month. If you want to increase your payments at any time you can, or if you'd like to save just the minimum amount that's fine, provided you remain within the minimum and maximum amounts. Monthly payments must be made by Standing Order and you must make a minimum of 8 payments each year to keep the account open.
	 
	
	
	
	
	Bonus Interest 
	
	
	As a regular saver we're offering you an extra bonus interest rate of 1.25% gross p.a. (1.24% AER) payable after two years. To receive this extra bonus interest you'll need to make at least 10 payments each year and we ask you not to make any withdrawals from the account. If you need to withdraw money before the end of the two-year period you will be able to make one withdrawal each year. You'll still earn interest tax-free on the account but you will not receive the bonus interest payment. At the end of the two-year period your account will receive an interest rate that mirrors our other Mini Cash ISA rates.
	
	If you decide at some point to transfer your Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA to another Cash ISA with a different provider, we will require a £30 administration fee to help us cover the costs involved. Again, if you do this, your interest is earned tax-free but you will lose your bonus interest payment. 
	 
	
	
	
	
	Who can benefit from a Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA?
	
	
	Anyone resident in the UK over the age of 16 can open a Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA. Remember that ISAs are limited as described in the section 'Meet Maxi and Mini', and it is your responsibility to ensure that you do not contravene the ISA regulations. Skipton is not able to accept transfers from other ISA providers.
	 
	
	
	
	
	Opening your account
	
	
	'Apply now' to obtain your Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA. 
	Simply complete the application form and standing order form and send them, together with your cheque to the Marketing Department at our Principal Office.
	
	Alternatively, if you would like to visit your local branch they'll be more than happy to help you with your application. 
	To find your nearest branch use our branch locator.
	
	If you are a new customer to the Skipton, please send with your application documentary evidence to confirm your identity and another item to verify your address (see application form for details). This is not only a legal requirement but it will also help us ensure prompt and efficient processing of your application. 
	
	
	
	
	Other products and services
	
	From time to time we offer products which are not available through our branches, such as postal and internet accounts. For further details visit our website at www.skipton.co.uk
	 
	
	
	
	
	Cancelling your investment
	
	
	When you open your account we will send you an ISA acknowledgement letter to confirm your investment. You will then have 14 days in which to change your mind and request cancellation. Any such request must be in writing and must be received at the Society's Principal Office within 14 days of receipt of the acknowledgement letter.
	 
	
	
	
	
	Charitable Assignment
	
	
	Skipton Building Society has found that its usual high standard of service to its committed members has been disrupted by the actions of speculators. To avoid continued disruption of its business the Society requires new investors to agree to assign any potential windfall benefits they receive to a charity (currently the Skipton Building Society Charitable Foundation) in the event of a transfer of the Society's business to a bank or other company announced within 5 years of their accounts being opened. Existing shareholding members as at 29th February 2000 who continuously maintain a shareholding account are not affected by this change. 
	
	Skipton Building Society still continues to welcome genuine customers who appreciate the long term value of investing with a Building Society.
	 
	
	
	
	
	Complaints Procedure
	
	
	If you are not happy with our service, we have an internal complaints procedure. You can view this in the customer services area of this site or ask for details of this procedure at a branch or from our Principal Office.
	
	Complaints we cannot settle may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
	 
	
	
	
	
	A tax efficient home for your savings and investments
	
	
	The balanced way to save
	
	An Individual Savings Account (ISA) from Skipton is a simple and easy way to let your money grow without any interest earned ending up in the taxman's hands. ISAs replaced TESSAs and PEPs as the way to ensure that your investments are free from both Personal Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax. You don't even need to declare your gains on your tax return.
	
	The Government has guaranteed that ISAs will be around for seven more years, allowing you to plan for your future savings with confidence. ISA limits are for a given tax year, so you may invest up to your ISA limit each year. In the same tax year you can choose to invest in either a Maxi ISA or individual Mini ISAs.
	
	Meet Maxi and Mini
	
	
	
	
	
	ISAs are divided into two distinct groupings, Maxi ISAs and Mini ISAs. With a Maxi ISA you can invest up to a total of £7,000 in a combination of stock market investments, cash deposits and life assurance.
	
	Mini ISAs allow you to invest the same total amount but each element will be separate and you can have them from different providers. You can invest £3,000 in a cash component, £3,000 in a stocks and shares component and £1,000 in an insurance component.
	 
	
	
	
	
	Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA - bonus interest rate, tax-free!
	
	
	If you want to receive an attractive interest rate with a bonus for regular savings and don't want the tax man to get his hand on your interest, the Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA is the ideal account for you.
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Talking Financial Sense
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	We appreciate that ISA accounts may be confusing. That's why we've compiled an ISA Q&A for your most commonly asked questions. After all, we're here to make sense of your money. 
	
	
	
	
	Summary of terms and conditions for Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA
	
- A Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA may only be opened by an individual aged 16 or over who is resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for tax 	purposes or, if not so resident, performs duties which by virtue of Section 132 (4) (a) of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 (Crown Employees 	serving overseas) are treated as performed in the UK, or is married to a person who performs such duties.
- The account must not be a joint account or held on behalf of a person other than the account holder.
- The account holder must not subscribe to more than one Mini Cash ISA, or subscribe to a Maxi ISA in any one tax year.
- The application form, Declaration and Authorities must be completed and signed by the applicant.
- The minimum opening investment and monthly subscription for the Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA is £50, and the maximum is £250. 
	
	The minimum operating balance is £50.
- This is not a CAT standard ISA.
- You will have 14 days from receipt of your ISA acknowledgement letter in which to change your mind and request cancellation of your investment in writing only. This is subject to all necessary identification requirements having been met. Your cancelled ISA will not count as an ISA subscription. Interest will be paid gross for the cancellation period.
- In order to qualify for the bonus interest rate you must not make any withdrawals from the account during the first two years from the date of opening, and a minimum of 10 monthly payments must be made each year for two years from the date of opening. After the initial two year period the account will become a mini cash ISA offering tiered rates equivalent to our other Mini Cash ISAs, without a bonus interest rate.
- An opening deposit can be made by either cheque or transfer, all future monthly payments must be made by Standing Order only. A minimum of eight 	monthly payments must be made each year in order to keep the account open. Lump sum payments cannot be made instead of monthly subscriptions. 
- The commencement date of the Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA will be the date of the first entry in your passbook.
- One withdrawal from the account can be made with immediate access in any tax year without loss of interest. Any withdrawal from the account will 	exclude the customer from the bonus interest rate. Any withdrawal must be by cheque.
- Closure and transfer to another ISA provider are allowed. For transfer to other ISA providers a fee of £30, to cover administration costs, is required and 	must be received at the same time as your written notice. Closure or transfer are classed as a withdrawal. 
- Interest rates are variable. Rate changes will be advertised in two national daily newspapers of our choice (currently the Daily Telegraph and The Daily 	Express) and by general notice exhibited in all our branches.
- Interest will be paid gross into the account at midnight 5th April each year. The bonus interest rate is payable two years after the date of opening subject 	to condition 8.
- We guarantee that the rates of interest on this product will never fall more than 1% below the Bank of England base rate ("the minimum guaranteed rate"). If the minimum guaranteed rates are in force, any new interest rates will become effective 14 days from the day after a subsequent Bank of England base rate change.
- In the event of death, gross interest up to the date of death will be paid into the account. The account will become an access account from the date of death with tax deducted at the appropriate rate.
- The account will be operated in accordance with prevailing legislation and regulations, which may, of course, be varied from time to time.
- In the event of you breaching statutory requirements for a Mini Cash ISA, or any of the Terms and Conditions of this Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA, the Society will immediately transfer the account to an access account backdated to when the account was opened and deduct tax at the appropriate rate. The rates and terms of the access account at the time of transfer will apply. The account will be debited to recover any tax payable on the gross interest that has already been credited and this may involve withdrawals from interest that has been capitalised. The Society will also transfer the account in this way if the account holder becomes bankrupt.
- The account holder cannot assign their rights in the account or use them as security for a loan.
- Skipton Building Society is a participant of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits in a society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of shares and deposits are not covered, for example deferred shares - permanent interest bearing shares. Although most shares and deposits are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society.
- The Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA is a share account which confers membership rights.
- This account is subject to the Terms and Conditions of the Skipton Regular Savings Mini Cash ISA, to our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions and to the Rules of the Society. These contain important information about the account and should be read before you open it. Copies can be obtained from any branch or our Principal Office.
- The terms of the charitable assignment arrangements are set out in the Investment Application Forms as well as our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions leaflet. There are certain categories of investor who will be exempt from assigning any future windfall rights. A list of these categories is available from any branch or our Principal Office.
	
	
	AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year.
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
