
:::::Teachers Building Society:::::
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buying 
 your first home 
 
 
 
 
 -
LET TEACHERS TAKE THE STRESS OUT OF YOUR FIRST MOVE
It can be the most stressful time of all - after all, it is the biggest single transaction 
any of us make. In some ways, it gets easier each time you move - but it can still be 
a complicated business.
-
Here's our step-by-step guide:
1. Start by asking some questions: what is your income and how is this likely to 
change? Where do you want to live - and how many bedrooms will you need? If 
you don't know what you're looking for, you won't know when you've found it!
2. Speak to a range of Mortgage lenders and see who you are comfortable dealing 
with - not just on the High Street but elsewhere - try direct lenders like the 
Teachers Building Society. Ask for explanations of the various mortgages 
available - discount, cashback, endowment, fixed rate and so on. How much can 
you put down as a deposit?
3. You'll need a solicitor or licensed conveyancer. Some mortgages provide a cash 
sum to cover legal costs as part of the package.
4. Time to visit estate agents. Do your homework: make sure you know what 
you're looking for and how much you can afford, and emphasise that you are in a 
position to move quickly. Remember that the estate agent is acting for the vendor 
at all times!
5. List the features you 'must have' and those which are 'nice to have'. Try to find 
out why a house is being sold, what the neighbourhood is like and whether you can 
visit at different times of the day.
6. When you've found one you like, make an offer through the estate agent. If it is 
accepted, inform your mortgage lender and legal adviser, and await their 
instructions before signing anything. (In Scotland, an accepted offer is legally 
binding.) The lender will arrange a basic valuation - which you may have to pay 
for - but you may wish for a homebuyers report or full structural survey.
7. A lot of background work will now begin: searches, preparation of the mortgage 
offer, checks on legal title and so on. Leave it to the experts - and chase them up if 
needs be.
8. Your solicitor will next ask you to sign the contract, after which he will 
'exchange' it with the sellers' solicitor. In England and Wales, you are now 
committed to the purchase, and you will be asked for a 10% deposit. You need to 
insure the buildings at this point, but not the contents.
9. Make arrangements for removals and remember to make arrangements for gas, 
electricity, water and phone changes, plus mail forwarding.
10. Completion Day is when the house becomes yours, and you have to deliver the 
balance of the purchase price. Time to move in - and now the fun starts!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage Selector
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mortgage Rates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Back to Mortgages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Calculator
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Mortgage Code
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Decision in Principle
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More Information?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home----About 
 us ----Mortgages----Savings----Other 
 Services----Site map----Contact 
 us 
