
	
	
	
	Stroud and Swindon Building Society - Mortgages > Buying to Let > Buy to Let Guide
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages Buying to Let Buy to Let Guide
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Mortgages 
 
Remortgaging 
Moving Home 
First Time Buyer 
Existing Borrower 
Buying to Let 
Discount Flex House Purchase 
Discount Flex Remortgage 
Buy to Let Guide 
Commercial Loans 
Important Information 
 Savings 
 
 Insurance 
 
 Planning your Finances 
 
 Intermediary Centre 
 
 About Us 
 
 Other Services 
 
Term Assurance 
 
Personal Loans 
 
Annual Multi-Trip Travel 
 
Royal Int. Air Tattoo 
 
Loyalty Discount 
 
Site Map 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Buy-to-Let 
Guide
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Thinking of buying your first investment property?
 	 Whether you are thinking of buying your first investment property, adding to your portfolio or considering re-financing existing rental property, Stroud & Swindon can help you arrange a Buy to Let mortgage.
A Buy to Let property can provide investment growth as well as additional monthly income. There are also tax benefits currently available to individuals letting out properties. 
Using a mortgage to buy a property to rent out is becoming increasingly popular but it must be regarded as a medium to long term investment. It should not be considered suitable for the purpose of achieving a short term gain. As with any investment, values can go down as well as up and property cannot be sold quickly if capital needs to be realised at short notice. It should be considered as part of a balanced investment portfolio, entered into after taking expert advice from a Letting Agent and Accountant.
LETTING TERMS
Properties can be let by any of the following methods:
• An Assured Shorthold Tenancy with a maximum period of 12 months, to a single household eg. individual/couple/family
• Company Lets
• Registered Housing Associations or Local Authorities Leases
If you are Buying to Let, the Society will only accept new tenancies. 
Exclusions:
• Letting for multi-occupancy 
• Bedsits
• Properties with any commercial usage
• Any property not recommended as suitable security by our Valuer
CLICK HERE for full LENDING CRITERIA Information 
 
	 
	 OUR LENDING CRITERIA
To whom will we lend?	
Private individuals who have been UK residents for 3 years and currently own their homes.
Maximum % Loan: 75% of the purchase price or valuation 
Maximum Loan: £250,000 per property - up to £500,000 for a total of 3 properties
Minimum Loan: £30,000	
Minimum Purchase Price / Valuation (whichever is the lower) : £60,000 per property.
Term: 5 - 25 years
Affordability : 
We will lend up to: 
(i) 3 x main income + 1 x secondary income or 2.5 x joint incomes (annual income will be reduced by any monthly commitments in respect of other loans or maintenance), less the balance of your personal mortgage, plus:
(ii) The rental income should cover 140% of the mortgage interest at 8% 
(Click on SHOW FULL INFORMATION for examples)
NOTE : we use these figures to allow for any increase in interest rate and to cover other costs eg. management charges, maintenance costs and those periods when you may not have tenants in the property.
	
	
	
	 
	 
	CALCULATION OF HOW MUCH CAN BE BORROWED IN RELATION TO MONTHLY RENTAL
MONTHLY RENTAL BORROWING CAPACITY
 
£100.00 £10,714
 
£200.00 £21,429
 
£300.00 £32,143
 
£400.00 £42,857
 
£500.00 £53,571
 
£600.00 £64,286
 
£700.00 £75,000
 
£800.00 £85,714
 
£900.00 £96,429
 
£1,000.00 £107,143
 
£1,100.00 £117,857
 
£1,200.00 £128,571
 
£1,300.00 £139,286
 
£1,400.00 £150,000
 
£1,500.00 £160,714
 
£2,000.00 £214,286 
	
	
	Whilst you may wish the letting to be self financing, we can perhaps assist you to buy the right property by taking into account any surplus income, after deducting an allowance for any additional regular financial commitments you may have eg other loans, child maintenance.
MANAGEMENT OF THE PROPERTY
This should be carried out by a suitable Letting Agent, unless you have experience of managing your own portfolio of property. 
The Agent will 
(i) have experience of local market demands, the letting potential and the range of rent that can be achieved in current local market conditions 
(ii) be able to clarify your rights and responsibilities and those of the tenant. 
(iii) advise you on the compliance issues relative to Safety Regulations and the need, if necessary, for re-decoration and new fixtures and fittings, which will help to attract good tenants and reduce the risk of lengthy void periods (periods when the property may not be let).
	
	
	WHAT OTHER COSTS SHOULD YOU TAKE INTO ACCOUNT?
• Legal costs - for loans up to £250,000 we will, with a few exceptions, allow your Solicitor to act on our behalf in the mortgage.
• Management costs. Agency fees for a comprehensive service can vary between 15% and 20%.
 
• Possible disputes with tenants which might result in non payment of rent, bills for damage and maintenance costs.
• Buildings and Contents Insurance/Rental and Legal Expenses Cover. 
• The costs of keeping the property in a marketable condition.
• Service Charges and Ground Rents if property is leasehold.
In summary, do get your sums right! Make sure that the rent will cover the mortgage payments and other ongoing costs, remembering to allow for possible void periods.
TAXATION
It is our understanding that:
• All income from UK property is treated as the profit of a Schedule A business. This means that most of your property expenses and cost of repairs (not improvements) can be deducted from your rental income with tax only payable on the surplus. In addition, any losses can normally be carried forward and set against future Schedule A income.
• The loan interest which can usually be offset against gross rental income, is the interest arising from a loan that was used to purchase and/or repair the let property.
• The initial cost of furniture and fittings is not allowable against tax but the actual cost of replacement may be claimed. 
• Amounts drawn down under a Flexible mortgage may not qualify for tax relief.
We do however strongly recommend that all new landlords seek expert advice on the overall tax implications and how to maintain accounts.
IS IT NECESSARY TO COMPLY WITH ANY REGULATIONS?
Your property and its contents will need to comply with various safety regulations. You may need to arrange for the servicing of appliances or replacement of furniture and you will also need to supply certificates of compliance with these regulations where appropriate. The Letting Agent will be able to advise you on these important aspects. 
The main regulations are contained in:
• Furniture and Furnishings (Fire) Safety regulations 1988, as amended in 1993.
• Gas Safety (Installation & Use) Regulations 1994
• Electrical Equipment (Safety) regulations 1994
• Smoke Detectors Act 1991
HELP US TO PROCESS YOUR APPLICATION QUICKLY BY PROVIDING
• Fully completed Application Form
• Valuation Fee
• Confirmation of the anticipated rental income from a recognised Letting Agent
• Last 3 months bank statements
• Last annual mortgage statement
• Last 3 months pay slips and P60
• If self employed, last 3 years accounts 
This information is for guidance only and is not intended to provide comprehensive information on every aspect of Buying to Let.’ 
Further information can be obtained from one of the recognised letting Agencies eg. ARLA (Association of Residential Letting Agents) or the RICS (Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.)
The Society cannot offer any advice with regard to either a proposed purchase or the viability of any prospective letting you may be considering. Responsibility for the financial decision to ‘Buy to Let’ must rest with you.
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	We operate a Charitable Assignment Scheme (please click here to read full details).
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society is a Member of the Building Societies Association and subscriber to the Banking and Mortgage Codes. 
The Society introduces only to the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life assurance, pensions and investments. Any financial advice given will relate only to the products and services of Stroud & Swindon Building Society and Norwich Union.
	
	Stroud & Swindon Building Society | Rowcroft | Stroud | Gloucestershire | GL5 3BG 
	
	© Stroud and Swindon Building Society, 2001. All rights reserved.
	
	Telephone Calls may be monitored and recorded for training and security purposes
	Site design, build and management by 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 0800 61 81 61 
	 
	 
 	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
 
 
	 
 
	
 
