
	
	
	
	Chelsea Building Society
	
	
	
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
You have a choice of repayment methods:
 
Repayment
 Each month you pay both the interest on the loan and part of the capital 
 so that your Prospect Mortgage is repaid in full by the end of the agreed 
 term.
 
Interest Only
 With this option your monthly payments are lower because they only cover 
 the interest on your loan. However, the amount you borrow remains outstanding 
 and will have to be repaid at the end of the term. You will need the funds 
 available to repay the capital from another source such as an ISA, endowment 
 policy or personal pension plan. Your can also repay the amount borrowed 
 from your own personal resources.
 
Protecting your Mortgage
 With both a repayment mortgage and an interest only mortgage, life assurance 
 should be arranged so that loan is repaid in the event of your death.
 
Early Repayment
 If you repay a Prospect Mortgage, or make an early repayment of capital, 
 interest will be payable up to the end of the month in which the repayment 
 is made. If such repayment is made within the first 5 years of the mortgage 
 term, an additional fee of 3% of the sum repaid will be charged unless 
 the mortgage is simultaneously replaced with a new Chelsea mortgage on 
 a different property.
 
Typical Example
 This example is based on a Prospect Interest Only Mortgage (Scheme 1) 
 of £50,000 (purchase price/valuation £57,000) and a term of 
 25 years (300 monthly payments), at a rate of 5.94% (6.1% 
 APR variable) and including an addition of 0.25% for the first 2 years.
 
 
 Amount of Advance 
 £50,000 
 
 
 Property price/valuation 
 £57,000 
 
 
 Monthly repayments (months 1-24) 
 £247.50 
 
 
 Monthly repayments (months 25 and thereafter) 
 £237.08 
 
 
 Total amount payable 
 £122,622.58 
 
 
 
The Annual Percentage Rate (APR) includes an administration fee of £245, 
 of which £195 is payable on application and the balance is deducted 
 from the mortgage advance, an estimate of the Society's legal costs of 
 £180, a discharge fee of £50, and an arrangement fee of £295 
 which in the example was paid by the borrower. You have the choice of 
 having the arrangement fee added to or deducted from the loan - interest 
 is payable on fees added to the loan. A lending risk fee, which reflects 
 the higher risk to the Society of larger percentage loans, is required 
 where the loan exceeds 80% of the price or valuation of the property (whichever 
 is lower). Where a lending risk fee is charged, it will apply from 75% 
 of the price or valuation (whichever is lower). A single payment lending 
 risk fee of £478.50 is included in the APR calculation.
 
The APR, monthly payment figures and total amount payable are based on 
 the current rate of 5.94%, being an addition of 0.25% on the prevailing 
 standard variable rate for the first 2 years and the Society's current 
 standard variable rate of 5.69% for the remainder of the term. It has 
 been assumed that each of these rates will apply for the whole of the 
 periods to which they relate and they are based on our current standard 
 variable rate. However the rates may well be different at the relevant 
 times and will rise and fall throughout the term. The total amount payable 
 figures include repayment of the loan at the end of the term. A means 
 of repayment of the loan will need to be arranged.
 
Quotes for all 4 Schemes can be obtained by calling one of our specially 
 trained staff on 0800 291291.
 
Important Notes
 
 
 1 
 The rate of interest is variable but no account has 
 been taken of any such variation. 
 
 
 2 
 The example provided does not include buildings insurance 
 but is based on the assumption that such premiums will be paid when 
 they fall due. 
 
 
 3 
 Status and the Prospect Mortgage.
 Chelsea's Prospect Mortgage is primarily designed for those who have 
 had County Court Judgements (CCJs) made against them or who have been 
 or are currently in arrears on their existing mortgage. To see the 
 qualifying details for the 4 different schemes, including rates of 
 interest, click here. 
 
 
 4 
 At the end of the second year, the additional rate will 
 be removed (which will result in the then prevailing rate falling 
 by 0.25% for Scheme 1, by 0.75% for Scheme 2, by 1.25% for Scheme 
 3 and 1.75% for Scheme 4) subject to the required monthly payments 
 being made to the mortgage account as they fall due. 
 
 
 5 
 If you cease to occupy the property, an additional rate 
 may be applied to your mortgage as may be appropriate under the Society's 
 policy attributable to tenanted properties. 
 
 
 6 
 Where the price or value of the property is greater 
 than £250,000, the maximum advance may be restricted. Further 
 details are available from your Chelsea contact. 
 
 
 7 
 Applicants for the Prospect Mortgage must be aged 25 
 years or over. 
 
 
 
Click here for what to do next.
 
 
All mortgage pages must be read in conjunction with the Important 
 Information (Mortgages) page. 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
