
County Shares
 
 
 
 
 90 
 Days Notice
 
 
 
 County 
 Higher 
 rates of interest paid annually 
 
 
 90 
 days' written notice required on all withdrawals 
 
 
 Minimum 
 opening amount £5,000 
 
 
 Higher 
 balances attract higher interest rates 
 
 
 Monthly 
 income option 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Available 
 only within our local area unless stated
 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 OF SHARE ACCOUNTS - OPEN ISSUES 
 
COUNTY SHARES
 
1. Applications will 
 only be accepted from personal investors resident in the United Kingdom. 
 Applications will not be accepted from non-UK residents, powers of attorney, 
 trustees and bodies corporate. The Society reserves the right not to accept 
 an application at its discretion.
 
 2. The minimum investment shall be £5,000 and the maximum £150,000. 
 If, for whatever reason, the balance falls below £5,000 the Society 
 will close the account immediately and return the balance to the investor. 
 Interest will be paid up to the day before closure.
 
 3. Withdrawals may be made only by giving 90 days notice in writing. Cheques 
 withdrawn from an account cannot be stopped except in the case of loss 
 or theft.
 
 4. A passbook will be issued. This is required for all receipts and withdrawals. 
 Withdrawal requests sent by fax or electronic mail will not be accepted.
 
 5. Interest will be payable on 31st May annually and will be paid in accordance 
 with the investors' instructions.
 
 6. Rates of interest on these shares may vary from time to time. The Society 
 will only reduce the rate of interest for one or more of the following 
 reasons:
 
 (i) because the Society needs to reduce costs to enable it to reduce interest 
 rates payable to it by its current and new borrowers or otherwise to maintain 
 and develop the Society's lending business;
 
 (ii) because the Society's administrative costs and charges have increased 
 or the Society reasonably believes they are likely to do so in the near 
 future;
 
 (iii) because the cost to the Society of borrowing funds has increased 
 or the Society reasonably believes it is likely to do so in the near future;
 
 (iv) because the Society needs to reduce a rate or rates of interest payable 
 by it in order to achieve and maintain prudent levels of liquidity, profitability 
 and/or financial strength having regard to current economic circumstances 
 and the Society's expectations of future economic trends.
 
7. Any variation in 
 the interest rate will be publicised in the Society's offices, and will 
 be advertised in selected newspapers as advised in the leaflet Guide to 
 Savings.
 
 8. Any variation in the terms and conditions will be notified to the investor 
 giving not less than 120 days prior written notice of the variation.
 
 9. Any notification sent to an investor's correspondence address shall 
 be deemed to have been served 72 hours after having been posted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Clay 
 Cross Building Society
 FREEPOST, Clay Cross, Chesterfield, Derbyshire S45 9BR
 (No Stamp Required)
 Freephone: 0800 834497 Fax: 01246 250397 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
