
	
	
	 
	
 
	Financial Services Compensation Scheme
 
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
The following information summarises the main
 provisions of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, which are
 relevant to shares and deposits in a building society. Building
 societies, and other participants in the Scheme, are under a legal
 obligation to provide information about the Scheme to any actual or
 intending investor.
 
 
 
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
The Scheme
 
Introduction
 
 
All UK building societies are participants in the
 Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under Part XV of the
 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The Scheme is administered by
 the Financial Services Compensation Scheme Limited (FSCS), a body
 established by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The Scheme is
 governed by FSA Rules.
 
 
Activation of the Scheme
 
 
Before the Scheme can be activated, the FSA or a court
 must make a determination about a building society participant in the
 Scheme. This would usually happen if it was determined that a
 participant was unable to repay investments which were due and payable.
 An example of where this might happen is if there had been a winding-up
 order in insolvency proceedings.
 
 
Amount of Protection
 
 
Under the Scheme, payments are limited to a maximum of
 £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total
 shares and/or deposits in a building society and 90% of the next
 £33,000. The payment is calculated by reference to all the investor's
 protected shares with, and deposits in, the society. Therefore, for
 example, if a claimant had two separate accounts with the society, one
 containing £2,000 and the other £1,500, he or she would receive
 £3,350 (100% of the first £2,000 and 90% of the next £1,500).
 
 
Protected Currencies
 
 
Most shares or deposits with a building society are held
 in pounds sterling, but all other currencies are also covered.
 
 
Interest on an Account
 
 
Interest earned on accounts at the time the shares or
 deposits become due and payable is covered by the Scheme (within the
 limit of the maximum payment). If a winding-up order against a society
 has been made by the Court, interest will immediately stop being paid on
 the society's accounts.
 
 
Shares and Deposits which are Protected
 
 
All building society shares and deposits are protected
 by the Scheme except -
 
(i) a bond issued by a building society which is part of
 its capital (for example subordinated debt);
 
(ii) a secured deposit;
 
(iii) a deferred share issued by a building society
 (usually permanent interest bearing shares);
 
(iv) a non-nominative deposit (that is, a deposit made
 without disclosing the depositor's identity).
 
 
Investors who are Protected
 
 
Most investors are protected including individuals and
 small firms, but there are some exceptions, such as larger companies and
 government bodies.
 
 
Joint Accounts
 
 
In the case of a joint account each joint owner is
 treated as having a claim for his or her share, and unless there is
 evidence about their respective shares, they will each be regarded as
 entitled to an equal share. For example, if two people have a protected
 investment of £70,000 the maximum compensation to each would be
 £31,700, which would usually mean a maximum total payment of £63,400.
 
 
Partnerships
 
 
If two or more persons have a joint beneficial claim,
 the claim is to be treated as the claim of the partnership if they are
 carrying on business together in partnership. Otherwise the joint
 account rules (above) apply.
 
 
Trustees
 
 
If a claimant's claim also includes a claim as a
 trustee, his or her claim as trustee will be treated as being separate
 from the claim in his or her own right. If the same person claims as
 trustee for different trusts, these will be treated as claims of
 different claimants. If a group of people claim as trustees their claim
 will be treated as that of a single person. If the claimant has a claim
 as a bare trustee for one or more beneficiaries, the beneficiary or
 beneficiaries will be treated as having the claim. There are further rules relating to
 trustees.
 
 
Personal Representatives
 
 
Where a person numbers among his or her claims a claim
 as a personal representative of someone who has died, the claimant will
 be treated in respect of that claim as if he or her were standing in the
 shoes of that other person.
 
 
Agents
 
 
If a claimant has a claim as agent for one or more
 principals, the principal or principals will be treated as having the
 claim.
 
 
Funding the Scheme
 
 
The cost of the FSCS in respect of savings and deposits
 in building societies, banks and others, and the cost of compensation
 payments under the Scheme, is funded by contributions from the
 businesses, that are covered by the Scheme (including building
 societies, banks and others).
 
 
	 
	
	
	
 
	
 
 
 
Making a claim under the scheme
 
 
The Rules of the Scheme require a claim to be brought to
 the FSCS within a set time (normally within six years of the date on
 which the claim occurred). In practice, a building society would give to
 the FSCS a list of the names and addresses of the investors who may be
 able to claim under the Scheme. The FSCS would then send a claim form to
 each investor for completion. Full details of how to complete the form
 would be provided at the time.
 
Each claim would need to be verified before payment
 could be made. This could involve further questions being asked of those
 who have claimed and the FSCS asking the liquidator or administrator to
 confirm the amount of the investment on which the claim is based and to
 confirm that the claim does not relate to shares or deposits of a type
 that are not covered by the Scheme. Again, detailed procedures would
 normally be notified at the time.
 
Claims would be paid as soon as practicable (subject to
 the checking procedure) once the share or deposit became due and
 payable. In liquidation, that share or deposit would become due and
 payable on the date that the final winding-up order is made - in all
 other cases it would continue to its original maturity date. Payments
 would be made, normally by cheque in the currency of the account in
 which the share or deposit was held.
 
 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
Further Information
 
 
The Rules covering the Scheme are very detailed and this
 leaflet does not deal with every aspect of the Scheme's operation.
 Information about the operation of the Scheme is available on the FSCS
 website at www.fscs.org.uk
 If you have any queries about the Scheme they may be addressed to
 -
 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
7th Floor, Lloyds
 Chambers
1 Portsoken Street
London E1 8BN
Tel: 0207 892 7300
Fax: 0207 892 7301/7337
 
Email: enquiries@fscs.org.uk
	 
	
	
	
	
