
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	:: Principality ::
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sorry, but at the moment this section can only be viewed in the English language.
Mae'n ddrwg gennym, ond ar hyn o bryd gellir gweld yr adran hon yn Saesneg yn unig.
	
	Your Questions Answered 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	How much can I borrow? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	This depends upon the value of the property, and your ability to repay the mortgage,
taking into account any other financial commitments you may have.
Generally, we may lend a sole applicant up to a maximum of 3.5 times his or her annual income. Joint applicants may borrow up to a maximum of 2.5 times joint income, or 3.5 times the higher
income plus the lower income.
Using our online calculator will give you a good indication.
 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	How much deposit do I need? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	Depending on the product you choose, and providing we are satisfied you can afford to repay the loan, the most we will lend you is 95% of the lower of the purchase price and value of the property. You will therefore need a deposit of at least 5%. 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	How do I calculate my income if I am self employed? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	An assessment of the past 3 years' net profit is used to establish income.
We will normally require sight of your last 3 years accounts, audited by a Chartered or Certified accountant.
 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	What is a repayment mortgage? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	With a repayment loan, your monthly payment includes
both interest and capital. The monthly payment is calculated
to make certain that the mortgage is repaid in
full by the end of the term
 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	How do I repay the mortgage? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	Mortgages are normally repayable over a period of
between 5 and 25 years. In most cases we will be able to
tailor the term to your requirements. There are two main
ways to repay the loan; repayment and interest only.
 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	What is an interest only mortgage? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	If you choose an interest only loan, you will need to
set up a separate investment vehicle such as an
Endowment Policy, Personal Pension Plan or
Individual Savings Account to repay the loan at the
end of the mortgage term. Each month you pay the
Society the interest on your mortgage.
You also pay to the Insurance Company, or Pension
or ISA provider, the amount that you have agreed
with them. With an interest only mortgage it is your
responsibility to ensure that adequate provision
exists to repay the loan. 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	What is Mortgage Payment Protection Plan? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	Buying your home may well be the most important financial commitment that you will ever make. Have you ever considered how you would pay your mortgage or mortgage related bills if you were made redundant or had an accident or illness that prevented you from working? People tend to think that it will 'never happen to them', but Mortgage Payment Protection Plan will now ensure that losing your job or your health no longer means having to lose your home. Full details are available from any of our branches, or contact us on (029) 2023 4264 or use our enquiry form. 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	Can I add the high lending fee to my loan? 	
	
 	
	 
	
 
	
	
	
	If your new home is in
Wales or within the following postcodes you will usually,subject to income,
be able to add the High Lending Fee to your loan. A high leding fee is charged on all loans where the minimum deposit is less than 25%.
CH1-CH8, ST1-ST21, TA1-TA20,
CH41-CH66, WA1-WA16, OX1-OX15,
CW1-CW12, WS8-WS15, SN1-SN16,
TF1-TF13, WV11-WV16, DY10-DY14, WR1-WR15, BS1-BS49, RG1-RG10, HR1-HR9, BA1-BA22, B60-B61, SY1-SY36, GL1-GL20,
SK1-SK17, GL50-GL56
 
YOUR HOME IS AT RISK IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP REPAYMENTS ON A MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
Mortgages are available to persons aged 18 or over, secured on freehold or leasehold properties in Wales and England and are subject to status. Security will be required. All lending will be subject to appraisal of the financial standing of the applicants. Written quotations are available from this office on request.
Principality Building Society is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. We arrange life assurance, pensions and investments only with the Norwich Union Marketing Group, members of which are regulated by the Financial Services Authority. 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
