
Skipton Building Society - investments - bonus portfolio fixed rate bond
	 
	 
	 
	
	skipton.co.uk
	
	
	Friday 28th June 2002 
	 
	
	
	
	Site Menu
	
	Home
	Mortgages
	Investments
	ISAs
	Branch Locator
	Customer Services
	Skipton Group
	Contact Us
	Newsletter
	About Skipton
	Press Office
	Careers
	Commercial Mortgages
	Offshore Investment
	Financial Indices
	Travel Insurance
	On-Line Term Assurance
	Location Map
	Help	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	investment portfolio 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	Services 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Portfolio
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Customer Services
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Apply Now
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Request a Pack
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Guide
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Jargon Buster
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	ISA Q+A
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Investment Rates
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Banking Code
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Financial Market Information
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Investment Tariff of Charges
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	skipton bonus portfolio
	 
	
	
	
	
	protection from falling rates
	 
	
	
	
	The Skipton Bonus Portfolio allows investors to balance their need for security and access with the potential long-term growth rewards of the stock market. It's actually an innovative combination of two investments, the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond (our own branded version of Norwich Union's Portfolio Bond), and the Fixed Rate Bond. 
	
	
	
	
	how the bonus portfolio works for you
	 
	
	
	
	With an overall minimum investment of £10,000, Bonus Portfolio is a combination of two elements.
	
	A minimum of 70% of the overall investment is placed in the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond and the remaining funds, up to 30%, are invested in a Fixed Rate Bond. This investment is ideal for the more cautious investor who, nevertheless, wishes to benefit from the kind of high growth potential that's available from the stock market. 
	
	
	
	
	high interest at a fixed rate
	 
	
	
	
	The Fixed Rate Bond is an exciting investment opportunity, which offers an extremely 
	competitive rate of 7.00% gross p.a. (6.98% AER). It offers the security of a fixed 
	rate until 30.04.2003, which in the current uncertain rate climate is an offer you'll 
	find hard to beat with any other building society or bank. We are able to offer such 
	competitive rates as we receive commission from Norwich Union for distributing their products. 
	A proportion of this commission is used to supplement the rate of interest so that you receive the benefit.
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	30%
	
	
	
	FIXED RATE BOND
	
	7.00% GROSS P.A. (6.98% AER)
	
	FIXED RATE OF INTEREST
	
	UNTIL 30.04.2003
	
	 
	 
	
	
	70%
	
	
	
	FLEXIBLE INVESTMENT BOND
	
	HIGH GROWTH POTENTIAL
	
	LONG-TERM INVESTMENT
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	access, no penalties
	 
	
	
	
	Apart from its' competitive rate, what makes the Fixed Rate Bond different from the others is the level of penalty free access it allows. You can withdraw up to 20% of your initial investment during the term of your Bond, all we ask is that the minimum you take out each time is £500 and your investment does not fall below £2,000. We are able to offer such beneficial terms as we require all withdrawals to be in the form of a cheque. This allows us to save on administration costs and so pass on the benefit to you. 
	
	
	
	
	what happens at maturity?
	 
	
	
	
	The Fixed Rate Bond matures at midnight 30.04.2003. Following maturity your account will become immediate access paying our variable rate applicable at the time. When your bond is nearing maturity we will contact you with a range of other investment opportunities. 
	
	
	
	
	
	about the skipton flexible investment bond 
	 
	
	
	
	The Skipton Flexible Investment Bond is a lump sum investment with no fixed term, which invests in the units of one or more of 
	Norwich Union's investment funds. There are four investment funds available. You should see the Skipton Flexible 
	Investment Bond as a long term investment. This usually means at least five years. You can keep the bond for as long as 
	you choose, there is no fixed date when it has to end. Choose the fund or funds which best suit your individual needs 
	in terms of security and potential rewards.
	
	FLEXIBLE INVESTMENT FUNDS
	
	
- WITH-PROFIT FUND
	
- GUARANTEED FUND
	
- WITH-PROFIT INCOME FUND
	
- SUSTAINABLE FUTURE MANAGED FUND
	
	Further details of the Flexible Investment Bond are available in the Flexible Investment Bond leaflet. 
	
	
	
	
	how to take advantage of this opportunity
	 
	
	
	
	To ensure you get the best advice, we would be delighted if you would contact your local branch where you can discuss the plan with one of our qualified staff. You may wish to telephone the branch for an appointment or alternatively arrange a meeting in the comfort of your own home. 	
	
	
	
	
	charitable assignment
	 
	
	
	
	Skipton Building Society has found that its usual high standard of service to its committed members has been disrupted by the actions of speculators. To avoid continued disruption of its business the Society requires new investors to agree to assign any potential windfall benefits they receive to a charity (currently the Skipton Building Society Charitable Foundation) in the event of a transfer of the Society's business to a bank or other company announced within 5 years of their accounts being opened. Existing shareholding members as at 29th February 2000 who continuously maintain a shareholding account are not affected by this change. Skipton Building Society still continues to welcome genuine customers who appreciate the long term value of investing with a building society. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Talking Financial Sense
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	terms and conditions
	
	
	skipton flexible investment bond
	
	
	
- Further information can be found in the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond leaflet and Key Features document, which are available from your local branch.
	
- The Bonus Portfolio account invests a minimum of 70% of your capital in the Skipton Flexible Investment Bond, a branded version of Norwich Union's Portfolio Bond, which is a lump sum investment bond with no fixed term, which does not have a maturity date and is not specifically designed to be cashed in after five years. A choice of four pre-selected investment funds is available.
	
- An investment in the Guaranteed Fund guarantees a return of all initial capital in this fund at the 5th anniversary of the policy. Withdrawals, switches and additional life cover charges, if any, from the fund will reduce the guaranteed amount in proportion to the number of units cancelled.
	
- Norwich Union is liable to corporation tax on its funds, which cannot be reclaimed. There may be a liability to pay tax on any gains or withdrawals in excess of the 5% annual allowance at the difference between the basic and higher rate of tax if you are, or become, a higher rate taxpayer, on encashment. Any Age Allowance or Childrens tax credit to which you may be entitled may be affected. Please remember, the law relating to taxation is liable to change.
	
- It is important to understand that the income referred to in the With Profit Income Fund is different from the interest you get from a bank or building society account. Depending on the level of income taken the 'income' you receive may include a partial withdrawal of your initial investment in the fund.
	
- We may need to make a market value reduction on full or partial encashments, or certain regular withdrawals or income payments or on switching out of the With Profit Fund. This will depend on the investment condition at the time and would reduce the quoted value of your investment. As a result, the value of your investment is not guaranteed and can go down as well as up.
	
- Full written details are available on request.
	
	
	the fixed rate bond
	
	
	
- The minimum investment is £3,000 and the maximum is £300,000.
	
- Withdrawals of between £500 and £100,000 can be made by cheque on demand at any Skipton Branch Office subject to condition 3. For amounts over £100,000 a cheque will be despatched by post which may take 2 or 3 working days. During the term of your bond you can only withdraw up to 20% of your original investment. You cannot make any additional deposits, even to replace money which you have withdrawn.
	
- You can withdraw up to 20% of your initial investment during the term of the Bond, so long as the minimum you take out each time is £500. However you can withdraw less than £500 with your final transaction, to bring the total amount you have withdrawn to the maximum of 20%. When this amount is reached, you cannot take out any more until maturity.
	
- During the term of the Bond you cannot close your account.
	
- Transfers are allowed to other Skipton Building Society accounts, subject to the normal terms and conditions of the accounts and point 3 above.
	
- The interest rate is guaranteed until 30.04.2003.
	
- Interest will accrue on a daily basis and will be payable at maturity.
	
- Interest will be paid after the deduction of income tax at 20% or, subject to the required certification, gross. Individuals who are non-taxpayers, and who have not registered to receive their interest without tax deducted, can claim a repayment of tax from the Inland Revenue. Individuals with taxable income in the starting rate band of 10% who are due to pay less tax than the amount deducted from their interest can also claim such a repayment. Individuals whose interest falls within the basic rate band will have no more tax to pay on their interest, as the tax deducted from it at 20% will satisfy the tax due. Individuals who are higher rate taxpayers will have to pay the extra tax due on their interest (the difference between tax deducted at 20% and the higher rate of 40%).
	
- Skipton Building Society is a participant of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Payments under the scheme are limited to a maximum of £31,700, that is 100% of the first £2,000 of an investor's total shares and/or deposits in a society, and 90% of the next £33,000. Most investors are covered, including individuals and small firms. A small number of categories of shares and deposits are not covered, for example deferred shares - permanent interest bearing shares. Although most shares and deposits are denominated in sterling, all other currencies are covered. Further details are available on request from the Society. 
	
- Should you cancel the Flexible Investment Bond during the cooling off period the Fixed Rate Bond will change to the Society's High Street Account and will be subject to the terms and conditions of that account with a variable rate appropriate for the level of investment.
	
- The Fixed Rate Bond is a share account which confers membership rights.
	
- This account is only available to individuals resident in the UK.
	
- This account is subject to our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions and the Rules of the Society. These contain important information and should be read before you open it. Copies can be obtained from any branch or our Principal Office.
	
- The terms of the Charitable Assignment arrangements are set out in the Investment Application forms as well as our Investment Accounts Terms and Conditions leaflet. There are certain categories of investor who will be exempt from assigning any future windfall rights. A list of these categories is available from any branch or our Principal Office.
	
- We subscribe to the Banking Code, copies of which are available on request.
	
- If you are not satisfied with our service, we have an internal complaints procedure. You should ask for details of this procedure at a branch or from our Principal Office.
	
	AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and illustrates what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and added each year.
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
 
	 Principal Office, The Bailey, Skipton, North Yorkshire, BD23 1DN.Site intended for UK residents only. 
	Legal Notice 
