 
 
 
 Yet Another Code Site - Links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yet Another Code Site 
 
 Links 
 Here are links to sites that are authoritative sources of BCB or WinAPI
information, provide extensive BCB (or possibly Delphi) source code, contain
good tutorials or short code samples that I found interesting or educational,
provide tools that are better than average, or have extensive links to other
useful BCB-oriented sites. Other than Microsoft and Borland, I have
avoided linking to sites for vendors unless their products may be freely used
by hobbyists or are otherwise exceptional. Hopefully, you will find them
to be useful and informative. If you know of other sites that might be of
interest or broken links on this page, please let me know. 
Quick Link Page Navigation: 
The
Best Places To Begin
Borland C++ Builder Sites
Delphi Sites 
Other Sites 
Open
Source Efforts 
Script Sources
Books & Publications
Vendor Sites 
 The Best Places To Begin 
 I have not found any other sites that specialize in Rich Edit
controls. The following sites are simply good places to start if you are
looking specifically for information on Rich Edit controls, the Windows API, or
VCL information. I have included a few search engines that might also be
useful. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft's
Developer Network 
Lots of information on using the entire Windows API. Searchable database of
documents, code samples, and free tools. Free basic enrollment. For a
fairly complete example of using Rich Edit controls in straight C/C++ (no MFC),
look for the REITP sample code. Of course, this site is the final
authority on all native Windows controls. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Borland.com
 Borland's
Developer Support Site 
 Borland's BCB Additional Sites 
The Borland web site does not have much, if anything, specifically about Rich
Edit controls. In fact, from my experience, I must conclude that Borland
is almost as clueless about Rich Edit controls as I am. However, the site
is the authoritative source for BCB information, patches, updates, FAQs, and
links to other BCB developer sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Borland's VCL Newsgroup
 Borland's Windows API Newsgroup 
 List Of All
Borland Newsgroups 
Borland's newsgroup discussion forums are typically very helpful. Many
"experts" regularly monitor the posts and answer questions where they
can. The above two forums are the best places to post questions about
Rich Edit controls. However, there are numerous other forums that cover
everything from the IDE to Delphi. I suggest that you add the server
(forums.inprise.com) to your newsgroup reader and select the forums that most
interest you. 
(If you have never participated in a newsgroup, you might want to read my
Advice For New Newsgroup Users.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DejaNews
Bad news: DejaNews folded. Good news: Google took over the
DejaNews archives (see below). Bad news: Google does not make the
newsgroups archives clearly searchable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Open Directory Project's C++ Builder Category
Lists several sites &#150; hopefully the list will grow. Anyway, they
gave me a "cool site" award, so they clearly have good taste,
right? (Note: The Open Directory Project was previously known as
NewHoo.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Google
Another search site that appears to be useful for programmers. For
example, search for "rich edit" or "richedit" and
you will find 390+ relevant links. Change the search to "borland and
(richedit or "rich edit")" and you will find less than 80
relevant sites. I suggest that you try the latter first....
Note: DejaNews gave up recording all newsgroup posts. Google.com
has taken over the newsgroup history that DejaNews previously recorded. 
Unless Google.com also caves, you should be able to search old newsgroup posts
there. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teoma
If you think that Google is a great search engine, you should check out
Teoma. In my experience, this search site returns results that are at
least as good as Google. Of course, "your mileage may vary,"
but I suggest that you give it a try.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MER
Systems
This site has a full database of Borland/Inprise newsgroup/forum messages with
a good search engine. Recommended. 
 
 Borland C++ Builder Sites 
 Sites with lots of information on BCB, components and component libraries,
tools that address my personal interests, or good links to other BCB sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Borland C+
programming web rings
Web rings are simply sites with a common interest that link to each other in a
way that allows you to move from site to site in an organized fashion. 
These particular web rings contain sites that concentrate on Borland C++
Builder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The
Bits - The C++ Builder Information & Tutorials Site
An excellent C++ Builder site. Tutorials, components, columns, and
more. Well organized with many free components that include source
code. If someone has solved the problem, there is a good chance that The
Bits will have it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The
Developer's Corner Journal
A good site for Borland information. Magazine format with columns on the
Windows GUI, network development, object design, product reviews, and
more. See the Tips, Tricks, and Tidbits column for the 
 RxLib
English Help Files. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bytamin-C
Borland C++ Builder site. Components, articles, tips and tricks, and a
message board (free). This is a home site for the Visual Assembler
Project, an endeavor whose goal is to make Assembler a Rapid Application
Development (RAD) environment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FraserSoft
Home of GenHelp. GenHelp generates a help file from Delphi and C++
Builder source. You then need add descriptions for each of the
properties, methods, and events in the appropriate GenHelp windows. With
a couple of clicks, you can generate a help file that looks and feels like the
Borland help. If you later modify your source code, simply re-import the
changed files and key the additional help information. Writing help files
is a pain, but this tool has saved me considerable effort and time.... 
Pete has also posted an English version of the RxLib help files. Be sure
to thank him if you find them useful. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BCBDEV.COM
Harold Howe's (of Borland TeamB fame) site. FAQs, IDE tips, links to
other BCB sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VCL
Components
This site is a collection of freeware and shareware VCL components. 
Although not strictly C++ Builder code, you can limit searches to specific
versions of BCB and Delphi, freeware or shareware, and components that include
source code. 
 Delphi Sites 
 If you are looking for answers to BCB programming problems, Delphi users
may have "been there, done that." These are some of the most
complete sites and may, in fact, have Delphi components that you can install in
BCB. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The RxLib Component Library
RxLib is an exceptional kit of tools. Complete with Delphi Pascal source
code (and installation instructions for BCB), it is freeware from a very
talented set of programmers in Russia. This is a definite must-have
library. I will not say it is "complete" &#150; but only because no
library is ever complete. On the other hand, if there ever was a free set
of tools that came close, this is it. The only real short-coming &#150;
and it is only a problem if you do not speak Russian &#150; is that there are
no English help files available from the authors. An English translation
is available at The Developer's Corner Journal and on Pete Fraser's FraserSoft
site (see the links above). Version 2.60+ of the RX Component Library
contains the TRxRichEdit component, which supports Rich Edit 2.0. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Torry's
Delphi Pages
If you are looking for a Delphi/Pascal solution or you simply want a
RichEdit 2.0 component that you can install and use, you might want to look at
TRichEdit98 on this site. Although I have not used it, the code appears
to be well-designed and claims to implement all of the RichEdit 2.0 features
that I cover on this site &#150; maybe more &#150; including OLE support,
character and paragraph formatting, and even extended URL support beyond what
the native RichEdit 2.0 control provides. Look for TRichEdit98 on the
"Edits, Memos #2" page. The current version as of 01-05-99, is
v1.32, includes Delphi source code, and is freeware. Let me know what you
learn about it. And, if your experiences are positive, do not forget to
thank the authors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Delphi Super Page
This site has tons of components, many with source code. Although
primarily a Delphi site, there are separate sections for Borland C++ Builder
code. Further, the site is incredibly well organized. I consider
this a "must-see" site.... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DelphiZine.com
This site is the home of, or at least associated with, the Delphi Informant
Magazine. There are good articles complete with Delphi source code
that explain using the VCL, automating Outlook, and even some articles that
delve into the Windows API. Given the C++ Builder's common VCL heritage,
this site is worth a look. 
 
 Other Sites 
 Sites that provide source code for my personal interests: 
Compression, image manipulation, encryption, regular expression parsers,
operating systems, and compiler tools. The sites may or may not have
BCB-specific source code; however most, if not all, provide C/C++ source code. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Info-ZIP
Info-ZIP's purpose is to provide free, portable, high-quality versions of the
Zip and UnZip compression-archiving utilities that are compatible with the
DOS-based PKZIP by Phil Katz . 
Info-Zip is now hosted at www.freesoftware.combut is currently difficult to find. 
For now, the above link works. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simtel.Net
Free source code for Windows programs, GNUish tools (MS-DOS versions of GNU
tools &#150; largely inactive, I think, but the old source continues to be very
useful), DJGPP (the free C++ GPP compiler ported to the MS-DOS platform), and
lots of other stuff. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The
CodeGuru Site/MFC Programmer's Sourcebook 
Tons of source code and information on difficult Windows programming
topics. Granted, the code is in WinAPI or MFC, but sometimes you have to
go slumming. If you are willing to work a little, this is an excellent
and very complete source. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wotsit's Format
This site has file format information for just about everything under the
sun. The index lists: Graphics files, movies/animations, archive files,
binaries, spreadsheet/database, font files, game files, text files/documents,
Internet related, sound and music, Windows files, GIS formats, comms formats,
printer formats, hardware formats, miscellaneous, and game programming. I
could not find the kitchen sink, but I would wager that it is in there
somewhere. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The
Graphics File Format Page 
Want information about a graphics file format? This is another good site;
however, the main page appears to have been neglected since 1997. Given
that I am editing this in 2001, this would not be my first choice unless I was
looking for a pre-1998 format. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 John Maddock's Home Page
Dr. John has been kind enough to make his regular expression library, Regex++,
available for free. It is fully compatible with BCB and incredibly easy
to use. He has posted other goodies, too. 
While I admire Dr. John's work and believe that it is a superior effort, some
of the BCB libraries based on his code and referenced on his site are not
free. If you are looking for a free solution or do not want to develop
your own libraries, you may want to see the free PCRE code (next entry below)
and updated BCB/PCRE code available on this site (main page
 Code Samples section) for a
possibly less complete, but abosolutely free, solution. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Perl-Compatible Regular Expression Library (PCRE)
Borland C++ Builder versions 4.0 and 5.0 come with a regular expression library
based on an earlier version of this tool (PCRE 2.x). Both versions
include the source code for the library albeit well-hidden (look in the
[bcbroot]\Source\RTL\source\pcre folder) and the help files include some
incomplete information (search the index for "Perl-compatible regular
expressions"). I have posted a PCRE 3.4 port on the main page of
this site &#150; see the Code
Samples section and look for "Upgrading the BCB regular expression
library to PCRE 3.4 ." 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington University
A large FTP site with Windows-specific archives, Unix, graphics, and other
source code. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ScramDisk Home Page
This site is run anonymously and has source code for a number of well-known
encryption algorithms. More interesting is the ScramDisk program which
allows you to create encrypted disk volumes. I have not tested it yet so
I suggest exercising extreme caution. However, the ScramDisk source code
is available on the site, so take a look. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCB and Delphi Freeware Zip Components Page
A source for ZipBuilder and ZipMaster freeware (PKZIP-format file-compression
source code). The site also contains links to other useful
PKZIP-compatible file compression tool sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hutch's home page
Whoever said that Windows killed assembler programming was clearly wrong. 
This site provides assembler coding techniques, programs, and tutorials. 
If you are interested in programming at the bare metal &#150; and really
understanding what both the software and hardware do at the machine level
&#150; this could quickly become one of your favorite sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Iczelion's Win32 Assembly HomePage
Here is another assembler site, but do not go here if you are not really
interested in assembler code &#150; this site may provide answers to more
questions than you ever thought to ask. As Alice said, it gets
"curiouser and curiouser" and you may find yourself overwhelmed or
completely distracted. On the other hand, there is no programming problem
that these guys cannot overcome. 
This site has tutorials; examples; assembler macros; links to freeware
assemblers and other related sites; and an entry point to the
 x86 Assembly Language Webring. Mirror sites: 
 Mirror #1 (fast)
and Mirror #2
(slow). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SmartFTP
Looking for Rich Edit 2.0 or 3.0 DLLs? You can download Rich Edit 3.0
here. 
Frankly, I have tried -- unsuccessfully -- to determine whether this site is
authorized to distribute the Microsoft RE DLLs. However, the site has
made the code available for so long that I must conclude that either it is
authorized or that Microsoft does not care enough to search for RE copyright
violations. On the other hand, maybe Microsoft will shut this site down
tomorrow -- so depend on this site at your own risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SysInternals 
This site specializes in advanced utilities, technical information, and source
code related to Windows 9x, Windows Me, and Windows NT/2000 internals. 
Source code is available for many unusual tasks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FreeVCS 
This is a free Version Control System (VCS) worth looking at. Before you
get too excited, there are a couple of caviats....
First, FreeVCS is not open source. In fact, the site FAQs state that
source code is not available at any price. Second, while FreeVCS can be
integrated into the Delphi IDE, the BCB IDE integration is, at this writing,
merely a promise. That said, you can use the FreeVCS outside of the BCB
IDE. Despite these warnings, I think this is worthy of a few hours of
review.
 
 Open Source Efforts 
 Thanks to tips from site visitors, I learned that there are sites that have
or are working on editors that are, in some cases, substantially similar to the
Rich Edit control. For example, the Unix world is working on replacements
for the Microsoft Rich Edit control. Other sites are simply trying to
produce usable text editors and word processors that import and export Rich
Text Format (RTF) files. As I began chasing down the Rich Edit open
source sites, I discovered other cool stuff. I found sites that are
working on open source compilers, non-RTF editors, linkers, format converters,
assemblers, zip libraries, encryption tools &#150; the list goes on and on. 
 Be warned that I have not personally downloaded, installed, and tested the
code from all of these sites. (I wish that I had the time to do
that.) The information below is mostly glommed from the source
sites. If you find sites not mentioned here, please let me know. 
Likewise, if you have comments about these sites (both positive and negative),
please let me know. Before committing to code from these sites, be sure
to understand the licensing terms, especially if you have commercial
aspirations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
StarOffice/OpenOffice
 StarOffice is now Open Source!
StarOffice is a full-featured Microsoft Office compatible suite of applications
which runs on a variety of platforms (Windows, Unix, and Solaris; Macintosh
support coming soon). By "full-featured," I mean that it
includes everything that you would expect from an office suite: A word
processor, spreadsheet, presentation software, image editor, database program,
and macro language. See the
press release and the
http://www.openoffice.org/ site for more info. For the
current free version of StarOffice 6.0 (beta), see the Sun Microsystems link in
the Vendor Sites section below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SourceForge
SourceForge is a free service to Open Source developers offering easy access to
the best in version control, mailing lists, bug tracking, message
boards/forums, task management, site hosting, permanent file archival, full
backups, and total web-based administration. If you are looking for open
source solutions, this appears to be a truly worthwhile starting point. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AbiSource
This site is the home of AbiWord, an open source GUI editor similar to the Rich
Edit control for Unix and Windows (BEOS and Macintosh ports are
underway). It uses XML for the native document format and can read and
write files in RTF, HTML, and other formats. It even includes a
spell-checker. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scintilla
Scintilla is another GUI editor with free source for Windows and Unix. It
includes source code editing features such as syntax highlighting and
auto-indent. The site also has links to other editor source code sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SynEdit
SynEdit is a 32-bit syntax highlighting edit control, not based on native
Windows controls. Predefined highlighters are included for C++, Fortran,
Java/JavaScript/JScript, Pascal, Visual Basic/Visual Basic Script/VBScript,
HTML, MS-DOS Batch scripts, Perl, TCL/Tk, AWK Scripts, SQL, x86 Assembler,
Delphi/C++Builder Form definitions, INI Files, Python, and more. If none
of these fit your needs, you can define your own list of keywords. RTF
and HTML exporters are included. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The GNU
Project
Home to (you guessed it) the GNU project &#150; free source code for just about
every Unix utility that exists. If you need MS-DOS versions of LEX or
YACS (compiler development tools), check out FLEX or Bison. If you want
source code for a program editor, look at GNU EMACS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PCRE (Perl-Compatible Regular Expression Library)
Recent versions of the Borland Delphi and C++ Builder VCL include a Regular
Expression search library. As best I can determine, these BCB versions
are based upon the PCRE 2.x library. A PCRE 3.4 port for BCB5 is
available on the main page of this site &#150; look for the TTaeRegExp class. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OWL NExt
This site appears to be dedicated to creating an open source version of the
BC++ OWL class library and making it portable to non-Borland compilers. 
Personally, I think that OWL was a better class library than the current BCB
Delphi-bound VCL so, if you are not already tied to the VCL or Borland
compilers, this class library worth a look. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Borland's InterBase
Even Borland has jumped into the open source movement, throwing its
once-strategic database product, InterBase, into the ring. Do not kid
yourself &#150; this is no toy database. This product was once positioned
to compete with Oracle and Sybase, albeit a bit too late. It is now in
its 6 th version and comes with a local database server (for
development without a dedicated server), supports SQL and large binary field
objects (BLOBs) for storing images and other arbitrary binary data, has support
tools for managing the servers and tables, and, possibly most importantly,
includes complete technical documentation. And since C++ Builder ships
with native VCL InterBase components for accessing and managing the data
(InterBase Express), this is definitely worth looking into. Want
portability? Linux and Solaris code is already posted for free
download. Check it out. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WC3 (The
World Wide Web Consortium)
This site has been around since 1994 with a goal of promoting common protocols
and standards. You might want to check out Amaya which is a complete web
browsing and authoring environment. The site notes that it comes equipped
with a WYSIWYG style of interface, similar to that of the most popular
commercial browsers. Also, the
HTML
Converters page links to various file converters including some that
convert HTML to/from RTF (see the
Word
Processor filters etc link to go directly to the page that contains
RTF/HTML converters). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LiNUX.COM
LiNUX.COM's mission is to enrich the Linux community by providing a centralized
place for individuals of all experience levels to learn (and teach) the power
and virtues of the Linux Operating System. Since a simple search for
"edit" on this site generates zero hits, this site is not
recommended. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The
Linux Home Page
If you are interested in Linux, this is a good site. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GExperts Home Site 
GExperts is an extensive set of add-in tools for the Borland Delphi and C++
Builder IDEs. This set of "experts" includes a better GREP
search utility, a message dialog source code generator, a tool for backing up
the current project to a ZIP file, an option to export syntax-coded text to a
file, add keyboard shortcuts to comment/uncomment a block of code, and much
more. While I think that you really should try this code, a couple
warnings are in order: 
- While this is an "open source" project, some of the code depends
upon licensed code (such as VCLZip). I found that you cannot modify the
source without licensing code from others. 
- Much of the code works only with Delphi sources. For example, the
backup utility recognizes only Delphi files by default; I wanted to add BCB
files to the default but ceased my efforts to add support for BCB file types
after finding that a license for VCLZip was required in order to recompile the
project. 
 In summary, I think that BCB programmers should look at this tool. 
However, until it is entirely free code, we will be forced to live with a
Delphi-centric implementation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wei Dai's Site
This site has C/C++ source code for encryption algorithms (Crypto++). The
site states that "one purpose of Crypto++ is to act as a repository of
public domain (not copyrighted) source code...." (I suggest that
you grab all of the free crypto code that you can before the US government once
again classifies cryptography as a munition.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Majix
MAJIX is an open source Java RTF to HTML/XML converter. I have not yet
spent much time with it (hey, I just found it), but
IBM
has information about it, so it must be good, right?
 
HTML & Scripts
Through the years I have been mostly interested in posting useful code,
FAQs, papers, snippets, etc. Frankly, having a "pretty" site
was the least of my concerns -- it was more important to make the site browser
independent (no Java scripts, no ActiveX plug-in's, etc.). I could use my
time making the site useful or I could spend my time making the site
attractive. Well, YACS is still not pretty, but I have found a few sites
that post code that make it easier to make sites "pretty" without too
much effort. Here are a few links that I think you might find helpful. 
 
 
 
 
 
 HTML Goodies 
Joe Burns wrote the book HTML Goodies, one of the early, technically relevant texts
on HTML. His site continues to have some of the best explanations of HTML
as well as useful scripts. 
 
 
 
 WebReference.com
According to the site, WebReference is "one of the oldest and most
respected Web development sites (since 1995)." Well, I cannot attest
to that, but the site hosts the DHTML Hierarchical script -- a menu script that
claims to be agnostic between Netscape, Internet Explorer, and, possibly, other
browsers. 
 
 
 The JavaScript Source
This site has tons of free scripting source code, many of which you can simply
cut and paste into your site's code. This is worth checing out. 
 Books and Publications 
 Generally, I do not recommend many books or magazines. The following
recommended publications fall into one of three categories: Essential
basic references, surprisingly good intermediate to advanced references, or
periodicals with consistently high-quality technical articles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Programming Windows, Charles Petzold
The Borland VCL is a great tool and will be all that you need 90% of the
time. This book is for the other 10%. If you are new to the Windows
environment or want to understand the Windows API, I am convinced that this
book is required reading. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Borland C++ Builder 4 Unleashed, Kent Reisdorph, et al 
This 1200+ page tome includes chapters on Rich Edit controls, templates,
threads, database, COM/OLE/ActiveX, ActiveForms, graphics, and more. Kent
does an excellent job of explaining the basics of printing with Rich Edit
controls and provides a slick Rich Edit style sheet class. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Applied Cryptography, Bruce Schneier
This is the introduction to cryptography by which all others are
measured. In-depth discussions on all of the major algorithms and
protocols. C source code is included. Free monthly e-mail
newsletter on cryptography issues. Highly recommended. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Compiler
Design In C, Allen I. Holub 
An accessible book on compiler theory and design, it walks the reader through
the development of compiler development tools similar to LEX and YACC. 
Each of the tools is presented with complete C code examples preceded by a
section on compiler, lexical analysis, or parser theory. This is not an
easy read, but, for C/C++ programmers interested in compiler development, this
is a unique and useful source. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C/C++
Users Journal
If you are looking for a magazine that targets standard C/C++, this is a good
choice. Lots of source code, questions and answers on standards, columns
on STL, and more. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dr.
Dobb's Journal
This magazine is heavy on source code, covers many programming languages, and
demonstrates solving many interesting programming problems. Dr. Dobb's
Journal has been around for many, many years because of its high-quality
articles. You can probably pick a copy up at your local bookstore. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developer's Information Library
The Developer's Information Library (DIL) is a CD collection of some of the
best technical information about Borland products assembled by the UK
Inprise/Borland User Group (UK/BUG). The CD includes tips taken from
newsgroups and excellent sites (including, ahem, this one); freeware,
shareware, and evaluation versions of programs; the latest Borland software
patches; a collection of several thousand image files; and "antique
software" (need a copy of Turbo C 1.01 or 2.01 or Turbo Pascal 3.02 or
5.5? -- it is on the CD). Of course, you can search through the database
by keyword and filter by category (BDE, C++, CBuilder, CORBA, Delphi, Java,
etc.). 
 To be fair, much -- if not all -- of the content is available on the
Internet. However, the DIL CD assembles some of the best information in
an easy-to-use format. For more information, click the above link and
select "DIL CD" from the navigation bar on the UK/BUG home page. 
 
 Vendor Sites 
 These vendor sites are those that provide useful f ree software, contain
freeware with source, supply unrestricted licenses for my evaluation (e.g., a
copy that included source code and no limitations on my comments about the
product), or have otherwise noteworthy products. I do not plan to
recommend many, but the few that are included below should be especially
worthwhile. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sun Microsystems
Sun recently bought StarOffice, a full-featured Microsoft Office clone which
runs on a variety of platforms (Windows, Unix, and Solaris; Macintosh support
coming soon). By "full-featured," I mean that it includes
everything that you would expect from an office suite: A word processor,
spreadsheet, presentation software, image editor, database program, and macro
language. And they are still giving it away. Scott McNealy may beat
Bill Gates yet.... 
 StarOffice v6.0 (beta) is now available. This is 80MB+ of
seriously good application software. Even better, Sun now provides a
software development kit. Check it out! 
 StarOffice is now Open Source! See the
Open Source Efforts section above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Castlewood Systems, Inc.
Another vendor site, but this is phenomenal! This company manufactures a
removable drive that is fast, reliable (in my experience), and, best of all,
affordable. This product, called an Orb Drive, stores 5.7GB of
data. Compared to a Jaz drive, it is larger, faster, and much, much
cheaper to feed. And the prices keep coming down..... 
See the Castlewood site or check out my Orb vs Jaz comparison. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Novell DeveloperNet
Novell's developer support site. NetWare C/C++, Delphi, and ActiveX SDK
libraries and components. Registration is free. 
Frankly, Novell has made more than a few strategic mistakes. However, do
not be misled by statistics and pundits' opinions &#150; Novell is
well-entrenched in larger companies, at least in file- and print-server
functions. Novell now makes the development tools free and even provides
Delphi versions of the tools that BCB programmers can use. Perhaps I am
biased, but I think Novell has better tools and is well-positioned to take back
the ground lost to Microsoft in recent times. On the other hand, Linux
may rightfully overtake them both..... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Component Software
Need a free version control system (VCS) for personal use? Well, I
did. As best I remember, this is not a new version control product. 
I recall checking this product out several years ago. Back then, it was
not well-integrated into the Windows programming environment. Today it
much more complete and, thankfully, there is a free personal edition available
for download.. For what it is worth, I *think* that the product is based
upon the free Unix RCS (Revision Control System) with added support for the
Windows programming environment. Anyway, I suggest that you give it a try
-- so far, I have been impressed.... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Woll2Woll Software
This company produces a variety of products and they were kind enough to let me
review InfoPower. InfoPower is their database product which works
with BCB and Delphi. The version that I reviewed contains a full range of
database tools and classes, including a Rich Edit 2.0 field editor. If
you are working with databases that need Rich Edit support, I suggest that you
evaluate this product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
toolsfactory
BCB4 and BCB5 ship with a "lite" version of Class Explorer. As
of May 15, 2000, Class Explorer Pro is available free for non-commercial
use. If you are a non-commercial enterprise, you definitely need to get
this upgrade. You might also want to review their new Doc-O-Matic
help-generation tool. Of course, you should also check out Pete Fraser's
GenHelp tool if
you need to create help files for BCB source code. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lobstersoft
If you are a shareware programmer, a commercial tool provider, or even a
freeware programmer, you should look at the Software Administration Kit (SAK)
on this site. The SAK makes it easy to keep track of users, registration
codes, product release dates, sales statistics, and bug reports. You can
even send customized messages to your users using the macro and e-mail
facilities built into this program. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Logictran
If you need to convert RTF text to HTML or XML, you might want to check out
this site. In my limited tests, the tool translated my RTF files to
virtually identical HTML. The converter is highly configurable, so you
should be able to tweak it to generate exactly what you want, need, or
expect. I was primarily interested in adding the ability to translate RTF
to HTML from within my programs. However, Logictran supplies stand-alone
programs to convert files so, if you simply need to translate files, you can do
so without writing any code. 
 Frankly, I found the RTF converter to be a bit challenging to use at first
-- there were no BCB interfaces or samples. Worse, the documentation was
directed largely at Visual Basic programmers. (If you have never tried to
port VB OLE code to another language, be warned that it is harder than it
sounds.) Logictran's support was excellent and we quickly resolved the
problems; you can now find BCB sample code and documentation on the Logictran
site. 
 
 WebRings
 For five years or so, Yet Another Code Site has been a member of the
C++ Builder Programmer's Ring and the Borland C++ Builder
WebRing. Sadly, both of these web rings have been acquired by
WebRing.org which, according to WhoIs, now belongs to
Yahoo.com. I have nothing against Yahoo, but I tire of having my
site suspended from the ring by the flawed automated site-checking software and
rude responses from Yahoo -- and no responses from ringmasters -- when I
attempt to restore my site to the rings. So, I give up
-- and we all lose....
As a courtesy to visitors to this site, and an undeserved bonus for Yahoo,
here are links to the list of sites on the rings. As soon as I remove the
references to the web rings from the home page, these links will also be
deleted. Please bookmark them now if you are interested in finding them
later.
	The C++
Builders Programmer's Ring
" BORDER="0" CELLPADDING="2" CELLSPACING="0">
 
Home| Top Of Page| Code| Papers|
FAQs|
Links|
Search|
Feedback 
 
 
Page updated 
 
 Copyright © 1998-2002 Thin Air
Enterprises and Robert Dunn. All rights reserved. 
