
ACCU - Spring Conference 2001 & AGM
 
 
 
 [Main Events Page]
 
 
 
The ACCU Spring Conference 2001 & AGM (March
29 - 31)
- The Sessions in Detail
- Registration fees
- Travel Information
The ACCU Spring Conference will take place on the 29th, 30th and 31st
of March 2001, at Christ Church College, Oxford, OX1 1DP.
The AGM
will take place on Saturday 31st at 12:45pm at the Newham Rooms, St Aldates,
which are just south of Christ Church College on the opposite side
of the road.
This conference is being organised by ACCU in partnership with
Informant Communications
Europe
Please note that some details (session summaries and Bios) are
missing, these will be added when available.
Thursday 29 March
	
	 
	 
Track 1
	
Libraries: Use and Design in C++
	
	 
Track 2
	
Java, Python and other languages
	
	 
Track 3
	
C++ for the ambitious
	
	
	
	 08.30 to 09.15
	 
	
	Breakfast for Residential Delegates
	 
	
	
	 09.30 to 10.30
	 
	
	Keynote: Minimalism by Kevlin Henney
	 
	
	
	 10.30 to 11.00
	 
	
	Coffee break
	 
	
	
	 11.00 to 12.30
	 
	
	Improving
	Reuse in C++ through Policy Classes
	(Andrei Alexandrescu)
	
Advanced
	 
	
	Introducing Python
	(Andy Robinson - replaces John Grayson)
	
All levels
 If you have a laptop, please
 bring it with you if possible as software will be
 provided for MS, Linux and possibly Apple Mac.
	 
	
	Expressing Constraints a la Standard ML Signatures
	(Gabriel Dos Reis)
	
Advanced
	 
	
	
	 12.30 to 14.00
	 
	
	Lunch
	 
	
	
	14.00 to 15.30
	 
	
	Considering Access in Design
	(Panel includes:
	Kevlin Henney, Alan Griffiths and Mark Radford)
	
All levels
	 
	
	Python Workshop - Chance to try it for yourself
	
All levels
 If you have a laptop, please
 bring it with you if possible as software will be
 provided for MS, Linux and possibly Apple Mac.
	 
	
	Namespaces & the
	Interface Principle
	(Herb Sutter)
	
Intermediate/Advanced
	 
	
	
	 15.30 to 16.00
	 
	
	Coffee break
	 
	
	
	
	16.00 to 17.30
	 
	
	C++ Templates: Concepts, Design, and Practice
	(Nicolai Josuttis)
	
Intermediate/Advanced
	 
	
	Using Python on the Web
	(Duncan Booth)
	
Intermediate/Advanced
 If you have a laptop, please
 bring it with you if possible as software will be
 provided for MS, Linux and possibly Apple Mac.
	 
	
	Exploring Interfaces - a C++ Perspective
	(Mark Radford)
	
Intermediate
	 
	
	
	 19.00 to 21.30
	 
	
	Speaker Banquet (numbers limited)
	 
	
Friday 30 March
	
	
	 
Track 1
	
Libraries: Use and Design in C++
	
	 
Track 2
	
Java, Python and other languages
	
	 
Track 3
	
C++ for the ambitious
	
	
	
	 08.30 to 09.15
	 
	
	Breakfast for Residential Delegates
	 
	
	
	 09.30 to 10.30
	 
	
	Keynote: Pitfalls of the software
 of the software industry by Herb Sutter
	 
	
	
	 10.30 to 11.00
	 
	
	Coffee break
	 
	
	
	11.00 to 12.30
	 
	
	Implementing the C++ Standard Library
	(Dietmar Kuehl)
	
Advanced
	 
	
	Java 2, Enterprise Edition (J2EE):
 Comparing J2EE to .NET
	(Dan Kirkpatrick)
	
Intermediate/Advanced
	 
	
	Optimising "Plain" and
	"Multithreaded" C++ Code
	(Herb Sutter)
	
Intermediate/Advanced
	 
	
	
	 12.30 to 14.00
	 
	
	Lunch
	 
	
	
	14.00 to 15.30
	 
	
	Standard C++ Locales
	(Angelica Langer)
	
Intermediate
	 
	
	C#: First Thoughts
	(Jon Jagger)
	
All (C# novices)
	 
	
	Improving your Presentation Skills
	(Panel includes:
	Kevlin Henney et al?)
	
All levels
	 
	
	
	 15.30 to 16.00
	 
	
	Coffee break
	 
	
	
	16.00 to 17.30
	 
	
	C++ Standard Library: Changes, Corrections and
	Future Extensions
	(Panel includes:
	 Dietmar Kuehl, Nico Josuttis et al?.)
	
All levels
	 
	
	C# in detail
	(Jon Jagger)
	
All (C# novices)
	 
	
	SCIL - grading embedded projects
	(Chris Hills)
	
Advanced
	 
	
	
	 17.45 to 19.30
	 
	
	Reception
	 
	
Saturday 31 March
	
	
	 
Track 1
	
Libraries: Use and Design in C++
	
	 
Track 2
	
Java, Python and other languages
	
	 
Track 3
	
C++ for the ambitious
	
	
	
	 08.30 to 09.15
	 
	
	Breakfast for Residential Delegates
	 
	
	
	 09.30 to 10.30
	 
	
	Keynote: Developing Open Source Software by Alan Lenton
	 
	
	
	 10.30 to 11.00
	 
	
	Coffee break
	 
	
	
	11.00 to 12.30
	 
	
	Traps & Pitfalls of the C++ Standard Library
	(Nicolai Josuttis)
	
Intermediate
	 
	
	Java for C+ Programmers
	(Julian Templeman)
	
Intermediate
	 
	
	Metaprogramming in C++
	(Gabriel Dos Reis)
	
Advanced
	 
	
	
	 12.30 to 14.00
	 
	
	Lunch and AGM at 12:45pm at the Newham Rooms, St Aldates
 which is just south of Christ Church College on the opposite
 side of the road.
	 
	
	
	14.00 to 15.30
	 
	
	Introducing Boost and the Boost C++ Libraries
	(Beman Dawes)
	
All levels
	 
	
	Exception Safety in Java
	(Alan Griffiths)
	
Intermediate/Advanced
	 
	
	A long hard look at the effect of defect on
 Scientific and other software.
	(Les Hatton)
	
All levels
	 
	
	
	 15.30 to 16.00
	 
	
	Coffee break
	 
	
	
	 16.00 to 17.30
	 
	
	Endnote: to be advised
	 
	
*Sessions and speakers subject to change without notice.
Panel: meet the News Group Gurus
The exact make-up of this will depend on who comes, but it will
include Dietmar Kuehl, Herb Sutter, Francis Glassborow, Alan
Griffiths and Andrei Alexandrescu (time and date to be advised)
The Sessions in Detail
Andrei Alexandrescu
Andrei is a Development Manager with RealNetworks, Inc. He is a columnist
for C++ Report, a former contributor to C/C++ Users Journal, and the
author of the upcoming book "Design with C++" (tentative title), Addison
Wesley Longman, Reading, MA. Andrei holds an MS degree in Electronics
from the Polytechnic University of Bucharest.
Improving Reuse in C++ Through Policy Classes -
 Example: Designing The Smart Pointer of the 2000s
This tutorial has a worthy goal: together, the presenter and the attendees
will implement a generic smart pointer, a highly functional piece of
code that sports configurable behaviours and an amazing rate of reuse.
Smart pointers are hard to get right. But because they nicely automate
things that are hard to manage by hand, smart pointers are an essential
ingredient of robust C++ applications. As small as they are, smart
pointers can make the difference between failure and success. The
implementation presented uses a new class design technique - Policy
Classes. Policy Classes are specialised structural and behavioural
entities that decide one well-defined aspect of a complex behaviour. The
advantage of policy classes is that they can be combined freely in
concrete classes, thus leading to combinatorial reuse. Through only
six mixable-and-matchable policy classes, SmartPtr achieves about 160
different predefined behaviours. Clients can define their own policies.
Duncan Booth
Duncan graduated as a Computer Scientist from Cambridge University and
initially worked for Torch Computers using BCPL, C and Assembler before
joining the fledging RCP as the third employee in 1984. Duncan has worked
on many projects in RCP, including foreign exchange dealing, real-time
financial data, banking back office systems, and healthcare systems. His
interest in Python was first sparked at a science fiction convention,
since when it has become a major player in his choice of languages. As
well as writing in Python he also ported it to the Psion 5 handheld.
He is currently developing applications for web and WAP browsers, mostly
using Python and Zope.
Using Python on the Web
Python is a language well suited to developing web applications. This
presentation covers all aspects of Python's role in web development. The
standard distribution includes good support for retrieving and processing
web data, allowing simple client-side applications with minimal
coding. Support for server-side applications is covered from simple CGI
scripts, through minimal web servers right up to Zope, a full-blown
web application server written in a mixture of Python and C. Finally
JPython provides an almost seamless integration between Python and Java,
allowing the developer to choose the most appropriate tool for the job.
Beman Dawes
Beman is a senior software developer and the author of the
StreetQuick=AE geographic atlas software library. Beman runs the
Boost.org C++ Libraries web site. He has been a voting member of the
ANSI/ISO C++ Standards Committee since 1992, and chaired the Library
Working Group for the past five years.
Introducing Boost and the Boost C++ Libraries
The Boost.org web site provides a repository of free, peer-reviewed,
C++ libraries. The emphasis is on portable libraries which work well
with the C++ Standard Library. Several may eventually go into the
next revision of the C++ Standard Library. Begun by a few programmers
from the C++ Standards Committee's Library Working Group, Boost now
has several hundred participants. This talk introduces Boost, and
describes the current Boost libraries, libraries under development,
and how programmers can participate. Who is it intended for?
Who is it intended for?
C++ programmers interested in learning about the current Boost
libraries, or int erested in contributing to future Boost libraries.
Francis Glassborow
Francis is a member of the BSI C, C++ and Java Standards Panels
 and a regular member of the UK delegations to the ISO work groups
 for these languages. He presents training in C and C++ and was a
 regular columnist for EXE. He has been a member of ACCU since 1988
 and has edited its principle publication C Vu since 1990.
Panel: meet the News Group Gurus
 -
Dan Kirkpatrick
Based in Aberdeen, Scotland, Dan Kirkpatrick is a software architect and
trainer with Blue Lotus Software, a consultancy specializing in the
development of cutting-edge technologies for server-side and client-side
applications. As an expert in J2EE, J2SE, XML, and C++, Dan lectures 
internationally on the development of Java applications and XML application
frameworks. Dan holds degrees in electrical engineering, computer science,
and applied math from Rice University, and has been programming 
professionally since 1988.
Java 2, Enterprise Edition (J2EE): Comparing J2EE to .NET
The introduction of Java 2, Enterprise Edition (J2EE), has established Java
as a dominant language for enterprise application development. The J2EE
platform provides capabilities for dynamic web content, asynchronous and
synchronous computing, directory services for networked services, and much
more. The .NET platform, recently introduced by Microsoft, offers many
enterprise application capabilities that are similar to J2EE. In this talk,
the speaker will introduce all aspects of the J2EE platform, and will
compare and contrast J2EE to .NET for enterprise application development.
Andy Robinson (replaces John Grayson)
Further details shortly...
Introducing Python
Python is an increasingly popular object oriented interpreter, invented by
Guido van Rossum in 1990. This presentation will introduce the audience
to the language, highlighting the features which make it valuable in a number
of application areas. In particular, the applications where Python is appropriate
will be contrasted with cases where Python is not intended to be used. Several
examples of Python applications will be presented, including system administration
tasks, GUIs and other effective applications.
Notes and Slides
John
Grayson's notes in PDF format
Alan Griffiths
Alan Griffiths is a senior developer at Experian, Chair of the ACCU
and a member of the BSI C++ Panel. He has been working in C++ since the
late 1980's and in Java since they first became generally available.
You can find details of some his published work by visiting his website
(http://www.octopull.demon.co.uk).
Exception Safety in Java
The fact that the compiler forces programmers to deal with exceptions
in Java leads to a presumption that they are dealt with correctly.
This is not always true - for without a clear idea of the objectives
it is easy to go astray. This talk covers several definitions of 
"exception safety" and illustrates techniques for achieving them in your
code.
Kevlin Henney
Kevlin Henney is an independent consultant and trainer specialising
in C++, Java, OO, design, patterns and software architecture. He is a
regular conference speaker, article contributor, and is a columnist for
C++ Report and Java Report.
Keynote: Minimalism
Software development is about many things, one of which is the management
of complexity. It is a lesson that has been oft repeated, but apparently
not as often heeded. The inherent complexity of a software system is
something that we can do little about; we cannot eliminate it, but we
can hide and abstract it. We can also create complexity.
The belief that "less is more" seems to be recognised more in its breach
than in its observance. It seems a common enough piece of advice from
which we can learn and shape our software, from large-scale components
down to individual program statements.
This talk sets out to explore how attention to a more minimal approach
affects the practice of writing software and the quality of written
software in a development culture obsessed with quantity and productivity
by numbers.
Chris Hills
A Technical Specialist with Hitex (UK) he is also a member of the
 BSI C panel. Over the last two decades, Chris has worked on embedded
 projects, from both the hardware and software sides, from smart cards to
 multi-processor SDH systems (PPC based). He has been involved in many
 practical reviews of tools and project requirements. Currently he advises
 many projects on the suitability of various debug and testing strategies.
SCIL - a simple way of grading embedded projects and embedded test
 and debug tools
The Safety, Complexity, Integrity Level is a simple method of
 grading embedded projects as a whole and the tool requirements for
 testing them as a whole. SCIL can also be used to grade embedded
 tools and indicates their suitability for various types of work. The
 SCIL system can be used to indicate to a sub-contractor the level of
 testing and the standard of tools required to achieve it. It wil also
 stop the use of inappropriate tools and methods. Eventually tools
 will be SCIL graded. This system is not language, industry sector
 or processor specific. The SCIL project is still in it's initial
 stages but has already gained much interest.
 www.scil-level.org
 
Jon Jagger
Jon is a product consultant at QA Training, responsible for their C++ and
C training courses. He is a member of the C++ and C UK standards panels
and a regular contributor to the ACCU Overload journal. He is married
with three beautiful children. He has worked for British Aerospace and
NTL and has experience of real-time digital TV software under UNIX. His
interests include training, design, problem solving, and Monty Python
(which he says is required knowledge for all software developers; forget
the technical interview, just recite the parrot sketch!) He doesn't really
know what else he should say in a short bio such as this. He's very,
very good at sleeping. And breathing. Both of which he practices a lot.
C#: First Thoughts
The main thrust of this talk is to introduce experienced programmers in
other languages to the new Microsoft language.
C# in detail
In this presentation I will discuss the new C# language from Microsoft.
I will make detailed comparisons between C# and C++ and also between
C# and Java. These comparisons will cover the whole of the C# language,
from the fundamental types right through to some of the key framework classes.
These comparisons will give delegates with a knowledge of C++ or Java a
strong feel for the language and its capabilities. I will also explain
how C# relates to the .NET platform and consider topics such as Intermediate
Language, .NET DLL modules, and .NET assemblies.
Nicolai Josuttis
Nico is well known for his new book about the C++ standard library, which
became a best-seller and de-facto standard on this subject in a very short
time. He is an active member of the C++ Standard Committee and has written
several books on object-oriented programming and C++. He is member of
the editorial board of "C++ Report" and a partner of the System Bauhaus,
a German group of recognised object-oriented system development experts.
He works as self-employed trainer, consultant and systems architect.
Traps and Pitfalls of the C++ Standard Library
The C++ Standard Library was a big step to enable programmers to use
general components and a higher level of abstraction of C++ without
losing portability, rather than having to develop all code from scratch.
However, the library provides a lot of flexibility, and flexibility for
nontrivial purposes has a price. Beware that the library has traps and
pitfalls. This talk shows the most important of them and suggests ways
of avoiding them.
C++ Templates: Concepts, Design, and Practice
C++ is a multi-paradigm language. One paradigm is the generic paradigm
provided by the templates technique. Due to the availability of standard
conforming systems and experience with templates we are just beginning to
understand the whole picture of the power of generic programming with templates.
One aspect is the ability to implement polymorphism in a different way.
Instead of using a base class, a template parameter is used. This has important
consequencies. For example, patterns such as the famous bridge pattern
may be implemented totally differently. This talk covers this subject,
discusses pros and cons, and provides some examples.
Dietmar Kuehl
Dietmar works as consultant and software architect at Phaidros Software
AG, a company turning UML models into ready to use software. He is an
active member of the ISO C++ committee, a moderator of the newsgroup
comp.lang.c++.moderated, and has written an implementation of a large
portion of the standard C++ library.
Implementing the C++ Standard Library
The standard C++ library is no different from any other library when
it comes down to user expectations: In the first place the library
implementation has to be correct but this is not the end of the
story. Using the library should have minimum impact on the compile time
and executable size while the resulting executable should be as fast as
possible. This talk presents techniques which the speaker uses in his
implementation of the Standard C++ Library implementations to address
these expectations.
Angelica Langer
I teach C++ related topics as a freelancer in Europe and the US. I'm
a recognised speaker at various international conferences, among them C++
World, OOP, TOOLS. I'm a columnist for C++ Report and a member of the C++
standards committee and co-author of the book "Standard C++ IOStreams
and Locales". A more comprehensive biography can be found on my web page
(http://www.langer.camelot.de/).
Standard C++ Locales
The Standard C++ Library includes a framework for internationalisation
of C++ programs in form of locales and facets. The locale framework
is used by the standard stream I/O classes for internationalised I/O,
but is designed to be of more general use. The standard facets provide
support for culture dependent formats of date and time, monetary amounts,
language-dependent sorting of strings, and other culture-dependencies. In
addition to the standard facilities, the locale framework is extensible
and can serve as a vehicle for special-purpose culture-dependencies such
as address formats, shoe sizes, or temperature-, measure-, or currency
conversions.
In this tutorial we will explore the standard facets and will learn
how to add user-defined internationalisation services to the standard
locale framework.
Prerequisites
Participants should have at least 1 year of working
knowledge of C++; knowledge of internationalization services in C will
help, but are not required.
Alan Lenton
Alan Lenton is in charge of game design and development and overall
technical matters for Interactive Broadcasting. Alan handles all the
design for new and existing games, and the programming for new games. He
also has responsibility for managing other programmers doing maintenance
work and writing game tools.
Alan has extensive management, publishing and software design experience,
having worked as the manager of a rock band, manager of a bookshop,
a graphic designer, and the production editor of a London listings
magazine. He was for three years general manager of the UK's first
commercial consumer network Compunet, before leaving to concentrate on
writing IB's award-winning multi-player game Federation.
Multi-player games designed by Alan include Federation, an
adventure/economic simulation set in a future universe; Iron Wolves,
a submarine simulation; and the recently released Age of Adventure,
a role-playing game based in Victorian times.
Alan has a degree in sociology from Leeds University, which is probably
one of the reasons why Interactive Broadcasting's games create true
communities, so that IB's multi-player games become real cyberspace
societies. Alan has been known to refer to himself as the world's only
practising sociologist!
Developing Open Source Software
Recently, putting software into Open Source seems to have become a panacea
for the woes of struggling software companies. It isn't. In many ways
developing open source software is much more difficult than developing
closed source software.
As well as the obvious requirements of good programming style and a solid
technical knowledge, developing open source software requires a well
suppressed ego, tact, and an ability to know when to compromise and when to
draw a line. Not characteristics usually associated with programmers! It is
perhaps not for nothing that a commentator once referred to Linus Torvalds
as the Open Source Movement's 'cat-herder-in-chief'.
This session will not only look at these issues but also at the nature of
code developed for open Source and the tools developed by the movement - 
rpm, cvs, gnatts, autoconf, automake, and libtools. It will also look at 
some of the implications of open source licences like the GPL.
See the conference notes at:
http://www.ibgames.net/alan/technical/opensource.html
Mark Radford
Twelve years experience in software development with both conventional
and object oriented approaches, working on scientific, engineering and
business applications. Used various languages (Fortran, Pascal, Basic,
C/C++ and Java) on range of platforms (VAX/VMS, Pick, Windows and IBM
Mainframe running MVS/CICS).
Having worked as an independent contractor for the last two years,
now settled once again in permanent employment with Intercede Limited,
who specialise in information security.
Exploring interfaces - a C++ perspective
To understand how to design interfaces effectively in C++, we must
delve into the themes that run through the best-practice use of the
language. This is highlighted by the (often subtle) effect that modern
C++ features - exceptions and templates for example - have on the way
interfaces are designed. The aim of this talk is to explore the issues,
principles and techniques that motivate the way interfaces are designed
in modern C++.
Gabriel Dos Reis
Former student of the ENS Cachan, I'm a third year PhD student in
Differential Geometry applying computational methods in constant mean
curvature surfaces construction by numerical methods.
I'm a member of the French national body organization for standardisation
(AFNOR) delegation in WG21 (since 1997), and I'm the French delegate in
WG11 (since 1998).
I began lobbying for C++ in scientific computations since 1996 when
I worked on the European scientific project FRISCO (Framework for
Numerical and Symbolic Computations) -- I worked at INRIA Sophia Antipolis
(France).
I implemented the numerical components of the new GNU libstdc++-v3
Currently I'm working, for CodeSourcery LLC[2], on the C++ front-end
of GCC. I'm also the co-maintainer of libstdc++-v3.
Expressing Constraints a la Standard ML Signatures
Our purpose here is to demonstrate how constraints a la SML
can be approximated in C++. After a brief exposition of abstract
classes as interfaces in C++, we show why that scheme doesn't fit
some static requirements. Then we move on considering some template
techniques. Finally we discuss their limitations.
Metaprogramming in C++: a type calculi point of view.
We want to emphasise the algebraic aspect of metaprogramming in C++
based on template techniques. In particular, we adopt the viewpoint that
type names are actually template-names of 0-arity. That enables us to
shed a light on the ideas behind template techniques as means of doing
metaprogramming in C++.
Herb Sutter
Herb Sutter is secretary of the ISO/ANSI C++ standards committees,
an active member of the ANSI SQL standards committee, contributing
editor of C/C++ Users Journal, and author of the books Exceptional
C++ and the forthcoming More Exceptional C++ (Addison-Wesley). He 
is also the creator of patents covering several dozen innovations 
in the fields of distributed database design and organization, 
distributed network organization, and cryptographic security for 
databases.
Namespaces & the Interface Principle
 (for C++ programmers interested in robust software engineering)
This talk analyzes namespaces and name lookup in C++, and shows how C++'s
naming rules affect sound class and module design. The talk covers Koenig
lookup, the Interface Principle, and some perhaps surprising name lookup
gotchas, and shows how to create robust designs that avoid the pitfalls.
Optimizing "Plain" and "Multithreaded" C++ Code
 (for Programmers interested in efficient coding style and multithreaded
optimization issues)
This talk answers the following questions: How can you identify and
eliminate unnecessary temporary objects? How can you reduce compile- time
dependencies to improve encapsulation and build speed? Will inlining make
your code smaller or bigger, slower or faster, and why? It concludes
with an in-depth examination of "copy-on-write," and shows why some
optimizations are only good in single-threaded programs and can cause
serious performance problems in a multithreaded environment.
KEYNOTE: Pitfalls of the software of the software industry
If you have an appetite for controversy, welcome to the software
development industry. Step right in! From language wars and standards
skirmishes, to Why 2K and antitrust actions, we have it all. Hugely
entertaining as it can be, however, the problem is that the misspent energy
often gets in the way of getting important things done. Worse still,
it distracts us from the true role of our industry in, and its value to,
our society. This talk is a reflection on the meaning and future of our
industry in the first decade of the 21st century.
Julian Templeman
A programmer since the early 70's, Julian currently runs a London-based
training and consultancy company, specialising in C++, Java, Windows and
COM. He also still has occasion to use Fortran, which qualifies him as
a real programmer...
Java for C++ Programmers
"A whistlestop tour of the Java world for C++ programmers. The
material is organised under three headings: First, "The Java Language"
which shows that, although superficially similar at the syntax level,
Java and C++ are in fact very different languages. "The Java Runtime
Environment" covers the Java Virtual Machine and how it implements
secure portability and distribution, and "The Java Platform" provides an
introduction to the numerous APIs, covering everything from 3D graphics
to wireless communication, which make up the Java platform."
Panel includes: Kevlin Henney, Alan Griffiths and Mark Radford
Considering Access in Design
The purpose of this panel discussion is to consider the broad issues
relating to use of access specifiers together with 'friend'. Some of
the questions that will be addressed are 'Should nested classes have
access to the private members of the enclosing class?', 'Should virtual
functions be private/protected?" and "When is public data desirable?"
The background to this discussion is a proposal to change the rules for
access for nested classes so that they will always have access to the
private and protected interfaces of the enclosing class.
Panel includes: Kevlin Henney et al
Improving your Presentation Skills
Many programmers have to make presentations as part of their professional
lives, not just for conferences. There are many ways in which these skills
can be developed. Members of the panel will discuss their own experiences
and suggest ways in which others can increase the effectiveness of
presentations at all levels.Improving your Presentation Skills
Panel includes: Dietmar Kuehl, Herb Sutter, Francis
Glassborow, Alan Griffiths and Andrei Alexandrescu
Meet the News Group Gurus
Most of us appreciate meeting people that we have only previously
corresponded with. Seeing the person behind the technical responses
is often a surprise, usually a pleasant one. There are a number of
regular contributors to language related usenet newsgroups attending this
event. The purpose of this closing panel discussion is to give everyone
a chance to find out a little more about them so that the next time you
post you will have a better idea about the people behind the responses.
Panel includes: Dietmar Kuehl, Nicolai Josuttis et al
C++ Standard Library: Changes, Corrections and Future Extensions
The ISO C++ Standard Library is 368 pages of complex software
specification, so errors or requests for interpretation are no surprise.
In the nearly three years the standard has been complete, over 230
such issues have surfaced. While most are just typos, minor defects,
or not actually defects, a few do represent fairly serious defects in
the standard. In this talk three active members of the C++ Standards
Committee's Library Working Group present defects they consider
noteworthy.
Who is it intended for?
C++ programmers interested in the C++ Standard Library, or interested
in perspectives from members of the Standards Committee's Library
Working Group.
Registration fees
Daily Rate:
Daily Rate
 Early Bird Rate (on or before Feb 16)
 Standard Rate (after Feb 16)
ACCU Members* 
 £80 +VAT (£94.00) 
 £99 +VAT (£116.32) 
Non ACCU 
 £99 +VAT (£116.32) 
 £125 +VAT (£146.87) 
Student 
 £55 +VAT
 (£64.62) 
3-Day Rate:
3-Day Rate
 Early Bird Rate (on or before Feb 16)
 Standard Rate (after Feb 16)
ACCU Members* 
 £215 +VAT (£252.62) 
 £270 +VAT (£317.25) 
Non ACCU 
 £270 +VAT (£317.25) 
 £335 +VAT (£393.62) 
Student 
 £160 +VAT
 (£188) 
*This also includes Corporate ACCU members
Residential accommodation at Christ Church, Oxford:
Rooms
 Bed and Breakfast
Rooms with en-suite facilities 
 £75 +VAT (£88.12) 
Rooms Standard 
 £58 +VAT (£68.15) 
ACCU Speaker Banquet on Thursday 29 March (places very
limited) £40 + VAT (£47.00)
How to register
Online:
www.accuconf.com
Phone: +44 (0)20 8789 2250 / 2251
Fax the
Registration form to:
+44 (0)20 8789 2249
Or post it to:
Informant Communications Ltd,
Unit 1, The Mews
6 Putney Common
London, SW15 1HL
UK
Travel Information
If driving, use the excellent Oxford
Park
and Ride Scheme. Carparks are
situated around the Oxford ring road.
Directions for getting to Oxford and links to Rail, Bus, Tube and
Coach is available from 
http://www.oxford.gov.uk/tourism/directions/directions.html.
Christ Church has
references
to location maps,
and a
road map
is available from Multimap.
Last Update - 3 April 2001.
Copyright © The Association of C & C++
Users 2001. All rights reserved.
