
FAQ
F.A.Q.
Q1. What is this page about?
Q2. What type of programs will be available to download?
Q3. What will I need to download these programs?
Q4. Is there any special type of software I need to use
these programs?
Q5. Compile? Executable? .CPP? What are you
talking about?
Q6. Why should I submit my own programs?
Q7. What should I do if I would like to submit
my own programs?
Q8. Will I receive any sort of monetary
compensation for my programs? Will I get any CREDIT?
Q9. My program looks just like one already on
this webpage, can I still submit it??
Q10. I just want to help, so what can I do?
Q11. Will you please do my homework because I waited until the last moment to
start it?
Q12. What about the people that ignore question 11 and email you anyways, or email you about dumb requests perhaps because they did not read the 
FAQ?
 
A1. This page is designed to be a place of
code sharing so that everyone wanting to learn how to program in
C/C++ can get an example of what types of coding techniques there
are and how they can be applied. Most of the programs, I suspect,
will be from students who have just completed their own
programming classes and would like to share their programs for
anyone wanting to learn.
A2. The programs that will be downloadable
will be either a .C or a .CPP file ( also known as a C or C++
file ) which is generally just a text file for the compiler to
turn into an executable program. No .EXE files will be included
since they take up space and you usually cannot learn a lot by
just running a program.
A3. To download these files you need to be
connected to the net ( duh! ) and you will need an unzipping
program. The two biggest unzipping programs out there are WinZip
and NetZip.
A4. To actually compile the code you will
need a compiler program such as Turbo C, Microsoft Visual C++, or
Borland's C/C++ compiler. These programs will do the job of
taking your code and converting it into an executable program.
A5. These are all computer programming terms
generally associated with writing a program. If you still don't
have the faintest idea of what these terms mean or what they are
doing on this site, then you are PROBABLY in the wrong site.
A6. I guess the better question is "Why
shouldn't I submit my own programs?" The easiest way for
most people to learn how to program is not by listening to an
hour long lecture 3 times a week, its by examples and seeing how
the coding technique is shown in a working environment. I have
never known a programmer who could program any homework
assignment on the first try and make perfect sense out of what
they had written. Professors, TAs and books usually only provide
you with a few examples and those are shotty at best. 
A7. So you want to help out the cause.
"THANKS!" My programs alone cannot do the trick of
pleasing the appetities of thousand of student programmers trying
to make sense out of trying to make their program work. The first
thing you should do is email me and let me know that you would
like to submit a program(s) to the web site and please include a
brief description of what your program(s) does and if it is
either C or C++ driven. The file I would like to put on the page
is a program that is reasonably documented and
works! I will do the rest by including an example of what the
program looks like when executed.
A8. Well since this is a FREE exchange I will
have to deny any sort of payment for your program, sorry. But,
all programs that are submitted will be given credit to the
author and include whatever you wish to include with your program
( your web page, your email address, a short poem, whatever ).
You get your 10 seconds of fame all by doing nothing more than
doing your homework and sending it to me.
A9. By all means! Even if you program is
almost an identical clone to one that is already on your site,
the more examples the merrier. People love to look at examples
and I am sure they will be most pleased to see other ways of
handling a problem.
A10. Thank you so much! It is nice to see
somebody wanting to help with my endeavor. Basically any
assistance you would like to give me would be a God-send. Just
email me and let me know what you would like to do with the web
page. Such as read it over and look for mistakes, writing out the
examples or just general assistance with the web page. I think it
makes a nice resume note since this page is frequented by over
15,000 hits a month and that's no small job for anyone.
A11. NO! HECK NO! FOR THE LOVE OF GOD/ALLAH/BUDDHA, NO I WILL NOT!
A12 Any email that I find unreasonable or is an attempt for me to do their homework will be dedicated to a page that will be seen in the future, which I will call
stupid C/C++ Questions or Requests.
|Home| |Program Index| |FAQ|
|Links| |About Me|
