
 
Old News Archive Page 1
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
Old News Archive
 
 This is where all of that reject, 
 old news gets kept. Instead of throwing it out, I've decided to 
 be nostalgic and keep the old news. Here it is below: 
 
Old Website News -- present to 9/30/99
 Really Old Website News -- 9/30/99 to 6/30/99
 Really Old Website News -- 6/30/99 to 2/6/98
 
Old Project V2143 News -- present to 5/4
 Really Old Project V2143 News -- 4/29 
 to 3/13
 
Back to main page
 
Old Webpage News:
 
 
 12/2/01 
 -- GNE 0.40 alpha 
 
 
 A lot of work has been done on GNE since 0.003 
 pre-alpha, and GNE has changed a great deal. The Connection API has 
 been redesigned and new types of Connections have been added in addition 
 to the completion of the timers, threading, and Console I/O (which 
 has been GREATLY expanded). Well I could go on a whole page talking 
 about the new features and additions. Check out the GNE page and the 
 GNE SourceForge site soon for updates within the next day. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11/29/01 
 -- Addendum to OOP Tutorial 
 
 
 I've made an addendum to the OOP tutorial, which 
 you can find on the tutorials page. It's pretty large and I almost 
 considered making it a separate tutorial but it addresses the issues 
 on standards compliance in the OOP tutorial. It addresses the concept 
 of namespaces, the new include files, and has brief mentions on the 
 new iostreams library and the STL. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11/18/01 
 -- Still Here 
 
 
 I have not been updating the website much recently, 
 but I am still around. I have been working a lot on the GNE library, 
 so most of the activity is happening on the GNE page and GNE SourceForge 
 site. There also will possibly be a new (short) tutorial comming in 
 the next month on making your own streambufs (based off the ISOC++98 
 standard)! If you would like to see it quicker, send an email and 
 I'll consider doing it earlier.
 I've also added a short explaination 
 of the non-networking classes in Itana. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7/23/01 
 -- Email Change 
 
 
 Webzone, my ISP, has stopped doing dial-up access, 
 so my email address has changed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5/14/01 
 -- Toolzone Down 
 
 
 Toolzone, the provider of my guestbook and counter, 
 has been down mysteriously for about a week and a half now. With all 
 of the websites closing now, I don't think they are comming back, 
 so I have gotten rid of the guestbook and now have a counter from 
 www.thecounter.com. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5/4/01 
 -- GNE Now in Full Swing 
 
 
 GNE has now been comfortably setup now and settled 
 in its homepage. There won't be anymore news posts on this mainpage. 
 Updates for GNE will be on its own page and on its SourceForge 
 project page. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/30/01 
 -- More GNE News 
 
 
 Everything in the GNE section has been updated. 
 I am about to start coding GNE and anyone who is willing to help, 
 please contact me. I've submitted the project 
 to Sourceforge and hope to have a CVS site up soon. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/28/01 
 -- Site Update 
 
 
 I've redesigned the site, this time just using 
 a different tool. It doesn't look different but the code is. The navbars 
 and this page are entirely using CSS now instead of HTML font properties. 
 The navbars will also update now automatically on all pages if I change 
 the template. The rest of this site looks the same but the content 
 is still using HTML properties -- these will only be changed when 
 I modify a page.
 Besides that I've put up a Word 97 version of the GNE requirements 
 document. That is the only thing new here. Nothing too exciting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/26/01 
 -- Itana v.71a 
 
 
 v.71a Windows is now out. Note that v.70 and v.71 
 clients are netgame compatable. Linux server works only in 2 players. 
 Since my Linux box is really messed up right now I can't compile .71a/Linux 
 right now but if anyone wants the source feel free. In fact if you 
 want to do it forever you can see a lot more support -- I can't keep 
 up with both versions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/25/01 
 -- GNE Progress Update 
 
 
 I have put up the work done so far on the Rose 
 model and the docs (generated from stubs documented with javadoc-style 
 comments) so far. Feel free to sanity-check my work as I go along. 
 Use the contact link to the left to sent and comments/praise/flames 
 to me. If you need some functionality in GNE for your project, this 
 is the time to let me know ASAP for me to consider it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/20/01 
 -- GNE page 
 
 
 The GNE link on the left sidebar was broken when 
 I uploaded the new site -- this was because I forgot to actually CREATE 
 the new page. GNE is only 3 days old now so only the requirements 
 document is up. At any stage of development any and all comments are 
 useful. If you wish to use GNE in your projects and need some different 
 functionality, it is best to know before I complete the class diagrams. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/20/01 
 -- Site Redesign 
 
 
 I've completely resdesigned the site. I think the 
 design speaks for itself and requires no explanation. Let me know 
 by using the conact link on the left bar what you think about the 
 new design. I have also gotten bug reports on Itana, and in the current 
 version >2 players doesn't work right now. Also there is some graphics 
 trash being left from explosions and the Alsetti parabolt. The >2 
 players situation and the Alsetti parabolt has been fixed for now, 
 and I'll try to get a patch out soon. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/12/01 
 -- Itana v.7a 
 
 
 Itana v.7a is now out! All four races are included 
 now. Please see the Itana page for more 
 info on the latest release. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4/1/01 
 -- Updates 
 
 
 I've made some changes to the design of the main 
 page and removed a poll. I decided against leaving it up, espically 
 since only a few have responded to it. Also an Itana update: All 4 
 races are in, each with their own weapons and special abilities. There 
 is also all new graphics for every race, including the Alsetti! This 
 is because a new artist, Vivienne Allen, has joined the Itana team. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10/19 -- Released version 2.0.1 of the BGui library, 
 with 2 new operating systems offically supported, and a bugfix.
 10/18 -- Released the WIP fixed version of BGui. Read 
 the BGui page for more details.
 7/30 -- I added 2 of my Java programs to The Coffee Cup section. Enjoy.
 7/23 -- I've done a lot of editing now and have redesigned 
 some areas and created 2 others -- The Games Corner 
 and The Coffee Cup. Check them out and let 
 me know what you think.
 7/9 -- I edited he Allegro tutorial to be constistant 
 with the latest WIP. I also added a small sample Allegro program pre the 
 request of one of my visitors and a section for using Allegro with MSVC.
 7/3 -- I haven't updated in a long time. Anyways, I fixed 
 an error in the C tutorial in the structures section where a string should 
 have been copied using the strcpy command and not the = operator. Also 
 I fixed some things in the mini-dictionary. As for my "secret project" 
 I haven't worked on it since I left college in May, although I have ever 
 intention on finishing it, espically since I have most of it completed 
 now.
 4/23 -- Sorry guys but the site that hosted my voting 
 link decided to discontinue its Top 50 list because it was not getting 
 as many members as they wanted. Thanks for all of you who voted for me 
 to keep me #1 for so long, although there was not much competition :)! 
 As for the new game, I have been working on it. It is called Itana and 
 will be multi-player only (I will add bots if I have time and skill to 
 do that). I have most of the basic code in and I can virtually play the 
 whole game, but at the moment only by myself. My next steps are to add 
 in the networking foundation, then finish off the very last parts of the 
 engine, then it will enter beta stage where I will tweak it and stuff.
 
Unlike my other projects I have decided to keep this one a lot more quiet 
 because I wanted to focus totally on making this one rather than getting 
 it out like I did to JetFight and PV2143. I actually want to FINISH this 
 game, and not have the problems I did with the other two games where my 
 teams lost interest (I as well to some extent), so I planned this game 
 where I could finish it by myself in one or two months and still be an 
 improvement over my last work. So far it has been going excelently -- 
 in fact better than I've expected! When I get it to beta stage (100% all 
 features and fully playable, only needs "tweaking" and final 
 bug fixing) I will release it at that time, which I expect to be before 
 I leave college at the end of May. After which time I might have trouble 
 testing network since I won't have the networking capabilities I have 
 here at college.
 
3/25 -- I've been working on a new game recently but 
 I don't want any pressure on this or spending a lot of time with the web 
 page and all that so I can focus on the game and school, so I have been 
 quiet about it publically. But I was trying to decide wether to choose 
 floats, doubles, or fixeds in my program, so I did a lil' profiling. I 
 updated the Archive with this new info.
 3/8 -- I have returned from spring break! There have 
 been some new updates to the site. The contact form works again, the random 
 number library has been updated to fix some major bugs and I just updated 
 the MUUDPIC site (I know it's been done for awhile, sorry for not getting 
 around to updating.) Also I have been having counter troubles for the 
 last month along with all of the other users on the site. It will be cleared 
 up soon otherwise I will be changing counters. I've lost about 400 hits 
 and I cannot access the stats or usage reports since their program times 
 out.
 2/20 -- I've updated the poll and added a link to a C/C++ 
 oriented newsletter, Codecraft. It's listed near the top of the links 
 page, or you can follow the link here. Also work on MUUDPIC 
 has resumed! Actually it started about a week ago but now it is nearly 
 finished. Just tonight I finished the working version with all of the 
 features working correctly. I just need to add a few additional things 
 to make it more stable in case people get disconnected from the internet 
 or try to use duplicate names. I will update the page soon.
 2/10 -- The COMPLETE version of DeathWorms is out now! 
 Sorry for the delay but it didn't get worked on as we all got busy. But 
 now it's out, check it out here.
 1/29 -- I updated the jrnd library so now it will work 
 in both C and C++ on all ANSI standard compilers, and now it has its own 
 RNG so you will get the same performance on all platforms. As for the 
 new "mystery game" I hope to have it out by the end of this 
 weekend. Its webpage here is complete, the GUI just needs a few finishing 
 touches and the save/load code is nearly complete.
 1/27 -- The voting link to Armageddon Games is finnally 
 back up! Thanks to all of the people who have voted for my site in the 
 past. There should also be a total revamp of the jrnd library which will 
 be portable across ANY COMPILER (not just DJGPP). Expect this by the end 
 of the week. The GUI frontend on the "mystery game" is very 
 near completion.
 1/24 -- Sorry I have not done much in the tutorial area 
 but instead I had been working on programming a new little game that we 
 have been playing around with in the dorms for hours. The only downside 
 is that it's only fun with 3-4 people so it IS multiplayer! I've had it 
 done for a bit but now I am going to put a GUI frontend to it so other 
 people can reasonably use it too. It supports as many players as you can 
 fit on one keyboard and up to 4 joysticks!!! Look for it soon.
 As for the OOP tutorial I've uploaded the 4 sections that I've done since 
 the last update. Also I found a memory leak bug in the LinkList library 
 and it has been fixed now and cleaned up some. I'm also on the DJGPP ring 
 now so feel free to browse the sites along the ring for more DJGPP information.
 1/17 -- I've done some misc work on the site making sure 
 The Archive, the Learning section, and the dictionary are all up to date. 
 I have also started up work on the OOP tutorial again because of a request 
 ;). Anyways the fifth chapter is now finished totally and I have just 
 started on the sixth chapter.
 1/14 -- Updated the links page, made sure the descriptions 
 were still valid and all of the links pointed to the right places, and 
 deleted obsolete links.
 1/12 -- Sorry for not updating in a long time. I had been waiting 
 to see if I could fix the problems with the Windows PV2143 or not before 
 I released it. Either ways I've decided to release the Windows version, 
 although it still have a few bugs but at least I know they are Allegro's 
 now. When Allegro (the library I use to do grfx, sfx, etc) gets finalized 
 hopefully it will look and act exactly with the DOS PV2143.
 BTW: I just notced that Fortunecities is getting stupider and stupider. 
 I'm so glad I left them. I just noticed they have a file download gateway 
 for every file you get that puts up banners and shameless FC ads!!! I 
 almost feel stupid mirroring them now they are so lame... but RIT goes 
 down every once in awhile...12/15 -- I really didn't think the voting links would come back but they did. 
 I know the sites are related so the other one might be comming 
 back soon. Thanks to all of the people who voted for this site!
 12/11 -- I changed the poll. It was starting 
 to get old after a few months ;).
 12/10 -- Sorry for being out of the scene for so long. 
 A few weeks ago I got MSVC and have been playing around with it, with 
 the intentions of porting the PV2143 game to Windows DirectX using the 
 new Allegro which is almost complete. The program runs somewhat but there 
 are still serious bugs and progress is slow. When I get around to it I 
 will probably MSVC-ize the site and tutorials, making sure what is DJGPP 
 specific is mentioned as being specific to DJGPP. I will also consider 
 making a short tutorial about some basic MSVC things helpful for programmers 
 starting with the environment or starting the C/C++ tutorial.
 11/8 -- I put an .a library file in the QuickGUI zip 
 for those who don't want to have to bother with compiling it. It's only 
 6k after zipped so it's no biggie.
 11/7 -- If you are reading this, you know that the page 
 has moved to the RIT server! It was a hard decision but I decided to make 
 it because in the long run it will do better than fortunecities.
 11/4 -- Sorry for not having many updates lately but 
 it's because I've been busy with end-of-term stuff in college. Very soon 
 I think I may have a lot more time opening up! I've also added a link 
 to the Armegeddon Games Programming Top 50 to vote for my site. If you 
 liked my site I appreciate your vote!
 10/30 -- Sorry I messed up permissions on the one-part 
 PV2143 download yesterday! It should be working now. Thanks goes out to 
 Zylot for finding this problem!!!
 10/25 -- I've released QuickGUI under the Files and Programming page. There was also an update 
 to the library that MUUDPIC uses to access the TCP/IP stack in Windows 
 and it is working better but still fails on all computers. When the library 
 improves enough or I get access to Linux or MSVC work will continue.
 10/21 -- I've put up an UNOFFICAL release 
 of the JPEG library by Eric Vannier because the offical site has been 
 gone for MONTHS and the other links to get it at are broken. Get this 
 from the Files and Programming page. As 
 for QGUI, I should probably release that, and I will soon, but the reason 
 why I hadn't was because I wanted to get it to work on Linux. Well I couldn't 
 get the thing to work on my system because it doesn't recognize my hard 
 drive, and x windows is horribly slow and there is hardly any support 
 for things in my system. The only good thing I can say about it is that 
 networking over my ethernet and all of the essential things were all there 
 when I started and ready for use and even setup correctly -- something 
 Windows never did. So if I ever get Linux to work it is very doubtful 
 I will EVER develop anything in or to Linux.
 10/15 -- The conversion of MUUDPIC/TextGUI to Allegro 
 is well underway. The base GUI procedures are ready to be used, and I 
 will release it separately from MUUDPIC for those who want to use it. 
 The textbox from TextGUI still exists, allowing for real-time window output 
 in the GUI using the > operator 
 (like cin), with the option of giving the user a prompt, settable via 
 a method. So far there are two misc tools, a wrapper for the editbox to 
 work well with enter, sending a MSG_TEXTBOX to all objects, and a QOutput 
 to quickly display a message to the user. I plan to release source which 
 will compile under both Linux and DOS without changes if at all possible, 
 but there will be two ports.
 10/12 -- Because of my lack of success in UNIX curses, 
 I am writing MUUDPIC using GUI powered by Allegro, the library I use for 
 my JetFight and PV2143 games, and which is also (supposedly directly) 
 portable to Linux, which I intend to do after I get the GUI working in 
 DOS (the internet library still does not work under 98), using classes 
 as similar as possible to TextGUI classes (most of those functions are 
 obsolete now, including CTextBox, which is 100% obsolete in the GUI since 
 a textbox already exists).
 10/11 -- The Linux port of MUUDPIC has been released. 
 It would be totally completed except for some curses stuff. Actually my 
 opinion of ncurses is not too great right now, and if anyone would please 
 help, I would appreciate it. I spent 5 minutes (quite literally) porting 
 my logic to Linux, and I've spent over 10-15 hours+ porting only 50 lines 
 of code! Curses seems impossible! For some reason, it doesn't show right 
 on VT100, crashes an xterm, corrupts the screen in ANSI, but corrupts 
 it just slightly less in ANSI.SYS mode. What a wonderful piece of crap.
 10/6 -- It's PV2143, it's back, and it's better than 
 ever in version 15, with many map editor enhancements and some game enhancements! 
 Check the PV2143 readme file for the latest 
 info. If you want to be on the mailing list to know when new PV2143 news 
 comes out, or if you want to help, contact me.
 
Old Project V2143 News:
 
6/7--Build 12 is out with the following features: Digital MOD music, 
 collision detection, loading maps from last build and this one (saves 
 only latest version since it converts). Road and bridge graphics, and 
 now buildings! I have to admit they are not all that great because of 
 their drawing angle but this WILL be fixed (looks at unit artist).
 5/31--So far for build 12 I have some buildings in and digital MOD music. 
 This next version will also be able to read maps both from the previous 
 build 11 and from its own version; however, it will only save maps of 
 its version (for conversion purposes.) I'm also thinking of doing the 
 same thing in the future.
 5/25--Many additions to the editor, including intelligent tile laying, 
 "big fonts" and in general more helpful, intelligent, and context-sensitve 
 menus. The stealth tank and the trees have a new look, as well as the 
 player tank (Earth tank)'s cannon. Also the new map format makes the maps 
 only 1/3rd of their original size, and MUCH MUCH faster loading/saving.
 5/21--All of the previously mentioned features have been added, which 
 is way too many to list again. This is the very first build I actually 
 started considering this a real "game" now rather than just 
 a programming project. Also, if you would like to be added on the mailing 
 list for this game, when I release a new version on the site I will notify 
 you. To be added send me mail stating wether 
 you wish to subscribe or unsubcribe. Your email address of course will 
 not leave the list, and fall into the evil hands of junk advertisers ;).
 5/17--I've gotten the ALL of the terrain tiles in besides 
 some road and the bridges. The next release should come out by this weekend, 
 and should be the biggest yet!
 5/16--Sorry for the lack of updates recently but last Thursday I graduated 
 and partied all night ;). Since then I've been enjoying a wonderful weeked 
 off school! Since the last release, I've been working on the AI, and adding 
 more enemies, and the new, morphing, player tank now. Right now even before 
 a lot of the AI is in I can't even beat 4 tanks now at a time! By the 
 next release I should have greated added to the editor (to allow for AI 
 editing) and added some more enemies, and perhaps the rest of the tiles 
 (my artist says he'll work on them today.)
 5/9--A small update. Added water gibs and a flood fill option in the map 
 editor (select F to use.) The instructions pops up a real GUI box now 
 besides the raw lines of text, which make it easier to read and much easier 
 for me to maintain. Unfortunately no other major features have or will 
 be implemented until I get more art/music/sfx :(.
 5/4--Added previously mentioned features, and more tile arts. Also a new 
 data file, for a REAL map now.
 
Back to main page
 
 
 
 
