
History of C
History of C
"The C Programming Language"
&nbsp 
Although I do not know much about the beginning of C, I do have a nice lil condensed version from my book that I had for my programming class. I think C is the best possible language to learn if you want to do a lot of advance programming since there are so many options that the programmer can use.
"C was originally developed by Dennis Ritchie of the Bell Laboratories in 1972. The language was named "C"
because it was the successor to a languaged named "B"(no lasting fame, however). C was developed as a high
level language that could be used to rewrite the UNIX operating system. Today, most of the UNIX operating
system and most of the programs that run under UNIX are written in C."
-C Programming Language
Earl L. Adams 1992
As for my personal feelings on C, at first I was intimidated by such a vast language. But with time and some practice, I became pretty good with the language, and I am now just discovering all that C can offer. Since I am most interested in AI and the gaming aspect of programming, I decided that C was the best choice with all its options and I also learned that the video game industry mainly used C to write game code. So with this knowledge and a lot of books, me and my friend have made the goal to learn most of what C has to offer.
Benefits of C
&nbsp
C has an extensive library for mathematical computations, character analysis, input and output functions, hadware structure, and graphics. While some functions are used more that others, they are all offered and are able to be used by the best programmers. Why write a code to find square roots or alter strings, when there are "header" files that can be used to call these special functions. C is also a relatively easy language to learn, so that you can also write some programs for your everyday life. Yes, there are more advance programs, but it is easy enough to learn to write simple programs.
&nbsp
Did I mention that programmers were also starting at 40K a year, right after college, programmers can make a lot of money doing what they do best and what they enjoy. I would not advise anyone to go into programming if they did not really have a love for the science. At times it is very time demanding and it can really stress you out! There are a lot of fields programmers can go into, from business applications, to video games, to Hollywood, programmers can be found providing the essential computer work for companies everywhere.
C Compiler
&nbsp
Basicly, a compiler takes as input a file
containing "Source Code", or a set of (semi) human readable commands, and
translates it into machine code. The translation is the output of the
compiler. As far as running the code, that is done by the OS, at least the
invokeing of the machine code. Technicaly, the computer (hardware and all)
"runs" the code. You can find out more about compilers at GNU.ORG. The two best compilers to buy, in my humble opinion, is Microsofts Visual C++ version 4.0 or higher or Borland's C++ Compiler version 4.0 or higher. There are more compilers out on the market, but if you want a compiler that has lots of help features and is better designed for any advance work, I would choose one of these two programs.
|Home| |Program
Index| |FAQ| |Links| |History|
|About Me|
