
DEAN FAMILY HISTORY
 
RECORD OF THE DEAN FAMILY
Not unlike many other families, we trace the record of the
Deans through trials, vicissitudes and poverty back across the
sea to the Province of Ulster, Ireland and to the wilds of the
Highlands of Scotland, a country rich in the production of
liberty loving men and women. Many such dared to leave their
native country, crossed the story Atlantic and cast their lot in
the wilds of America, infested by hostile enemies and accompanied
by privation and discouragements of almost every description. 
Only the bold spirits, like Daniel Dean, who had the courage to
fight for their rights, as a rule survived the ordeal.
To such we owe the credit of having made America a safe
place in which to live. Amid the pioneer work of conquering and
surmounting difficulties of seeming impossibilities, Daniel Dean
began his career in this country.
The ancestors of the Dean family were strictly of the
Coventer faith. Daniel Dean, one with whose history we are
familiar and who resided and died not more than a mile from this
place, was born in the village of Tubermore in the Province of
Ulster, Ireland, October 20, 1766. He immigrated to America in
the year 1784 at the age of 18 years. His father, G. R. Dean and
his two uncles, James and David, were soldiers in the
Revolutionary War. He sent back to Ireland for his mother in the
year 1790. He was a weaver by trade, prospering well in his
trade. He resided for a time in Pennsylvania, then immigrated to
Virginia where he was married to Miss Jannett Steele, a
Scotch-Irish girl, of Augusta County, Virginia. The young couple
immigrated to Kentucky near Mount Sterling where he was engaged
in milling for many years, becoming quite well off in that
business. He had a family of eleven children, but falling out
with the institution of slavery, he determined to immigrate to
Ohio, locating in Greene County in the year 1812 on Caesar's
Creek where he purchased 2,000 acres of land -- this farm being a
part of the same tract.
The names of his eleven children are as follows: Robert
Dean, who was a soldier in the war of 1812 and who married
Elizabeth Campbell; Mary C. married James Moore; Jannett S.
married Hugh Campbell; Elizabeth married James Campbell; Margaret
married John Bickett; William married Catherine Shook and was a
soldier in the Mexican War; James married Elizabeth Pendray;
Joseph married Hannah Boggs; Anna married Walter Parry; Daniel
married Jane Campbell; and Julia married James Hopping. All
settled down and lived in Greene County, except two -- James and
Elizabeth -- who immigrated to Indiana and resided near Muncie,
that state. Of these eleven children, they averaged eleven
children each. They have since grown into a great multitude.
During the Civil War, 36 enlisted in the Union Army, most of
them serving three years and over and out of the 36 who enlisted,
35 returned alive. Dean Perry lost a leg at the battle of
Perrysville, Ky. Three of the others were slightly wounded, and
James Moore died with disease at Wartrall, Tennessee and of the
36, ten are yet alive. 
Of this large family of near 500, more than three-fourths
are members of the Christian Church, and 90 percent are total
abstainers from the use of intoxicating drink.
This reunion is the centennial anniversary of the
immigration of the ancestor Daniel Dean and his family from
Kentucky to Ohio. They landed in this county in September, 1812,
and camped on the banks of a small stream near the site which
afterward became the Dean Cemetery. Eating their first breakfast
on a large flat rock, about 20 feet in circumference and perhaps
two feet in thickness, which served very well for a table. This
rock still remains as a relic and a monument to the memory of our
ancestors.
The early history of the immigration of Daniel Dean to Ohio
is so intimately associated with his brother-in-law Henry Barnes,
who also immigrated from Kentucky near the same time, that we
thought it would be well to give a part of his history which is
so closely connected with Daniel as to make this sketch more
interesting when taken together.
Daniel Dean first came to Ohio in 1808 with Henry Barnes, as
did Joshua and Caleb, spying out the land. It was upon this
visit that Daniel purchased this 2,000 acres of land, but soon
became involved in a suit over the title which cost him $1,500 to
perfect his title, which he did not succeed in doing for about
three years thereafter, which delayed his removal to this
County.
Henry Barnes, being an excellent mechanic, and so became a
useful associate and friend of Daniel and their mutual
friendship was never betrayed by either, but continued a strong
support to each other during life. Barnes came to this County in
1808 with Daniel and located in Xenia, which then had only a few
houses. He owned about one-fourth of the present site of the
City. He built many houses in Xenia assisted by Daniel Dean,
Dean furnishing the timber while Barnes did the work. Parts of
some of the buildings yet remain that they built. Barnes was a
strong man in other respects - he was a man of some education -
was a surveyor. He was a man of General Jackson's type. He was a
member of a company of Indian Hunters in Kentucky, and had been
engaged in many Indian hunts in Kentucky. On his immigrating to
Ohio his military character was soon recognized, and he was
placed as Captain over a company of militia at his new home, and
this State being full of treacherous Indians one can well see
that such a man as Captain Barnes would be considered a very
valuable citizen. Barnes continued to reside in Xenia until his
death. He was a member of the M. E. Church, and a Christian man. 
He had seven children. Henry, who was during the Civil War
Sheriff of Greene County and also the Treasurer of Greene County
two terms; Dean, John, Andrew, Mrs. Hannah Buckles and Mrs. Eliza
J. Clemans and Mrs. Elizabeth Davis, all of which families
married and had large families -- valuable members of society.
To show the determination of the mother, wife of Captain
Barnes, there was an emergency which required her presence back
in Kentucky. She mounted her horse with her little child less
than a year old, and rode back to Kentucky alone, a distance of
150 miles, back to her old home.
When Daniel Dean came to Ohio he brought with him four
wagons - two four-horse teams and two two-horse teams. One of
these teams belonged to Captain Barnes. On their way to
Cincinnati a stray dog came to them, and as they had no dog he
was encouraged to remain, which turned out to be a very valuable
asset to the family. Many interesting stories were told of the
value of this dog and one of Daniel's horses whose name was
Jolly. They gave the name of Range to the dog. A story was told
of the dog that after they had passed through Cincinnati, which
was a very small village, and took the trail or road toward
Greene County, and after they had gone about 15 miles, night came
on and they were compelled to camp in the wood. Much fear was
entertained of the Indians. At about midnight Range began to
raise the alarm of the approach of an enemy. There were four men
who had guns. All arose and remained up until daylight. It was
supposed that the dog had in fact discovered Indians approaching
attempting to steal their horses. After the arrival of the
family, and for two or three days thereafter, Range was heard
baying something a few hundred yards from camp not far from what
is now the family cemetery. James and William took their rifles
and went to see what Range had found. On reaching the point,
they saw Range baying a bear. It was up on its hind feet
challenging Range to a fisticuff which Range declined to accept
and while in this posture, William shot him and this bear meat
was relished by the family much to the credit of Range.
Another story is told of Captain Barnes and Daniel. A month
or so after reaching Ohio they started out to find some friends
who settled near the present site of Clifton, both riding
horseback; Daniel riding Jolly a noble horse, and the dog Range
following after them. On finding this settlement they were
cordially received, and their company being genial and
entertaining they were induced to remain with them a little too
long. On starting home they had not gone far when a cloud came
up and they were enveloped in darkness, and soon became
bewildered and lost. Not knowing what direction to take, they
finally decided to let Jolly have the reins, trusting to his
instinct to take them to the camp, Range still following behind. 
As soon as Jolly was given the reins, he turned about and Captain
Barnes objected saying he knew Jolly was going in the wrong
direction. But Daniel insisted that Jolly's judgment had been
good on other occasions and he could trust him. Jolly set out in
a fast walk. It began to storm and thunder furiously. After
they had gone quite a distance at about midnight they missed
Range, and after a while they heard him barking. He did not like
a storm, and during such times he would come to the door of the
camp and bark until he was admitted. As soon as Jolly heard the
dog bark he started out in a lope and soon reached camp. 
Grandma, fearing that they were lost, would not let Range in so
that he would continue to bark and thereby assist the lost men to
find the camp. Jolly went direct to camp and did not betray the
trust placed in him.
Daniel Dean was a member of the Associate Presbyterian
Church from early life. His wife Mrs. Jannett Dean was a member
of the first Missionary Society organized in Greene County. 
Daniel Dean was an ardent abolitionist; he hated the institution
of slavery and enjoyed the distinction of being the first member
of that church who was ever arraigned before the session of the
church for denouncing his minister for praying for the
institution of slavery in which he gained a signal victory, and
that same church still exists and prospers and is to be
congratulated on being the first church in Greene County to hold
a temperance meeting, all members attending, which resulted in a
resolution that all members of that church thereafter refrain
from the use of intoxicating liquor except in sheep washing and
harvest time. This is amusing now, but the great benefit to the
temperance cause as a result of that meeting cannot be
estimated.
Daniel Dean died in 1842 at the age of 77 years. He was a
man of worth, a respected citizen of his community and an upright
Christian gentleman. His remains rest in the Dean Cemetery, by
the side of his wife Jannett. A suitable monument marks the
spot. He was a very liberal man in his dealings with his
neighbors, exacting but what was right and just. In his will,
which is on record in the Probate Court of this county, he
requested that no suit should ever be brought against any person
indebted to his estate, and this was fully carried out by his
executors, John Bickett and Walter Parry, his two sons-in-law.
OUR ANCESTORS
by Frances M. Smith
"Dene of Dene in the forest of Dene" and "Dene of Deneland"
are family designations centuries old.
The Denes pride themselves upon their Saxon descent, and
accordingly, the prefix "at" is frequently used in conjunction
with the name, in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. De
Dene, de Dyne, and de Deyne are also found in the records up to
the reign of Henry VIII.
Den or dene is the Saxon word for valley, a word still in
use.
Robert de Den was "pincerna", or Butler to Edward the
Confessor. Ralph de la Dene, Hampshire, was living at the end of
the twelfth century. Five of the family had the honor of
knighthood during the reign of Edward I, and are named in the
"Roll of Knight" in that era.
Henry Dene was Lord Chancellor under Henry VII, Sir Richard
Deane was mayor of London at the end of the seventeenth century,
and Sir Anthony Deane was high in naval affairs.
At Springfield Castle, in Ireland, may be seen portraits of
Moses Deane and his wife, dressed in the style of Covenanters. 
They were the parents of Matthew Deane who purchased large
estates in Ireland. ... given a baronetage by Queen ...?
Two of the first settlers in Taunton, Mass. were John and
Walter Deane, from _____ near Taunton or Taunton Deane,
Somersetshire, England, a stronghold of the Deanes. Before
their arrival, however, Stephen Deane had reached these shores, a
passenger on the Fortune, 1621. He built the first cornmill in
Plymouth Colony. In 1627 he bought one acre of land of Philip
Delanoy, and built a house for himself and his newly made wife,
Elizabeth. About six years later he purchased for 20 lbs. of
William Bradford, "Gent", a house in the center of Plymouth
village. His wife survived him and was married in 1635 to Josiah
Cooke.
The children of Elizabeth and Stephen were Elizabeth, who
married William Twining, and Susanna, who married first Joseph
Rogers and second Stephen Snow.
The American family of colonial days always spelled the name
with a final "e".
The land which the two colonists purchased at Taunton is
still owned by descendants.
Walter Deane was a Deputy to the Plymouth Court in 1648, and
Selectman of Taunton for nearly two years. His wife was Eleanor,
sister of Elder John Strong of Northampton.
John Deane, Walter's brother, also held public office. His
son, born about 1639, is said to have been the first white child
born in Taunton. He married Sarah, daughter of Deacon Samuel
Edson. Thomas, another son of John, married Katherine
Stephens.
Silas Deane, Commissioner of the Court of France during the
American Revolution, was a great-grandson of James Deane, of
Stonington, Conn., who is thought to have been a nephew of John
and Walter. Silas Deane was one of the Connecticut delegates to
the first Congress in 1774. He was so active in fitting out the
naval forces that he was called the "Father of the Revolutionary
Marine".
A roster of officers of the Continental Army includes the
following names: From Massachusetts, Captains Walter and Thomas
Dean, and Lieutenant Ebenezer; From Connecticut, Ensign Jonathan;
From Pennsylvania, Lieutenant Samuel; From Maryland, Major John
Dean, Jedediah Dean whose wife was Margaret Bristol, was also a
Revolutionary soldier.
The Coat of Arms ascribed to John and Walter Deane is
blazoned; Gules, a lion, couchant, guardant, or on a chief
argent, three crescents of the field.
Crest: a demi-lion rampant, or in his dexter paw a crescent
gules.
Motto: Forti et fideli nihil difficile.
This coat of armor belonging to the family founded by Richard de
Dene, time of Edward III, but without the motto, which is used by
Baron Muskerry of Deane of Ireland. He, however, has different
arms, with angels winged and bearing palm branches for
supporters.
There are a number of coats of arms belonging to different
branches of the family blazoned for the name spelled Dean, Deane,
and Deans.
