
	
	
	
	MerchantSelect - The Complete Merchant Provider Resource
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	Visitor Login
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Site Search
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Guides
	
	
	
	
Merchant Accounts
	
Shopping Carts
	
Payment Gateways
	
Turnkey Solutions	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	News Wire
	
	
	
	
Datakey Smart Card Technology Deployed to Secure Online Submission Of Commercial Documents
	
DigiPortal Software's 'ChoiceMail' Requires Spammers to Personally Ask Your Permission
	
Freestar Technologies Comments on Exodus of Credit Card Issuers and Payment Service Providers from Online Gaming Industry
	
Trintech Supplies the Automobile Association With PayWare Merchant to Automate All Call Center and Internet Payments
	
Payment Partners Introduces Alternative to Fraudulent and Costly International Credit Card Payments for Online Retailers
	
Tucows Partners with GeoTrust To Provide Enhanced Internet Security Solutions
	 
	
	
	Newsletter
	
	
	
	Submit your email to receive our free newsletter! 
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
PSW Fits The Bill
	 
	
	
	
	
In the mid-90s the Internet boom brought with it a surge in the growth of information technology companies eager to take advantage of increased demand and huge revenue opportunities online. But, it wasn&#x2019;t primarily demand in the market that prompted ....Full Story
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Find a Merchant 
	
	
	Showcases
	
	
	Merchant Accounts 
	Payment Processors 
	
	
	Guide to Merchant Accounts, Articles... 
	Guide to Payment Gateways, Articles... 
	
	
	Turnkey Solutions 
	Shopping Carts 
	
	
	Guide to Turnkey Solutions, Articles... 
	Guide to Shopping Cart Solutions, Articles... 
	
	
	Point-of-Sale Solutions 
	 
	
	
	Guide to Point-of-Sale Solutions, Articles... 
	 
	
	
	MerchantMatch
	
	
	Whether you are looking for a business partner or building an E-commerce solution, meet your match through this interactive tool! Completely anonymous, and at no cost, MerchantMatch lets you request service proposals from leading merchant vendors.
	Start MerchantMatch 
	
	
	MerchantFind
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	Location:
	
	
	US Merchants
	Canadian Merchants
	International Merchants
	All
	 
	Business Types:
	
	
	Internet
	Retail
	Mail Order Telephone Order (MOTO)
	All
	 
	
	
	Credit Cards:
	Visa MasterCard American Express Discover Diner's Club 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	Articles 
	MORE 
	
	
	
	
	
Business-to-Business E-commerce: A Snapshot
	A highly successful E-business is one that is not only able to meet or exceed the needs of its customers, but also work in a collaborative, interactive and efficient manner with vendors, distributors and other businesses. Applying technology to engage these strategic partners online in a collaborative..
	 
	
	
Small Business Is Big Business
	It&#x2019;s 1995 - Chris Mriscin is traveling from San Francisco to Wichita, Kansas to meet with friend Ken Gebhart. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss a potential business idea they&#x2019;ve been tossing around for a while. Having dabbled in computers and the Internet, both Chris and Ken have a vision...	 
	
	
	
	
	
	Editorial Corner 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
MerchantSelect Attends Smart Toronto CRM Breakfast Series
	Recently, I participated in my second Smart Toronto breakfast series seminar &#150; this one focusing on customer relationship management, or CRM as it&#x2019;s commonly called....
	
Key Players Will Drive Use Of Digital Signatures Forward
	Perhaps you are &#x2018;on the road&#x2019; on a business trip and need to deliver time-sensitive documents to the main office. How can your colleagues at the main office be sure that you are the person sending the information? How do they know the data has not been altered? 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Give MerchantSelect Your Two Cents 
	
	
	
	MerchantSelect.Com seeks unique, thought-provoking advice and commentary on emerging and growing trends in the E-commerce industry. Each week, we will pose a different question and invite you to 'voice' your thoughts. Give us your two cents worth!
THIS WEEK WE ASK - 
	
	
	Do you agree or disagree? Customer Relationship Management is not about technology - it's about strategy. Tell us what you think 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	Home
	
	
	Merchant Accounts 
	
	
	Shopping Carts 
	
	
	Payment Processors 
	
	
	Turnkey Solutions 
	
	
	Point-of-Sale Solutions 
	
	
	Contact 
	
	
	Advertising Info 
	
	
	Vendor Login 
	
 
	
	SPONSOR LINKS
	
	
	Merchant Warehouse
&#8226;Same equipment, lowest price. Guaranteed. 1-800-941-6557
Paybyweb.com
&#8226;provides instant merchant accounts with no set-up fee.
Beantree
&#8226;Introducing the ‘BeanBasket’ shopping cart - Sign up now for 2 months FREE! 
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	About Us | Contact Us | Work for Us | Submit Article | Business Development | Advertising Info | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use 
	
 
	 
	&nbsp 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	&nbsp 
	
	
	
