
 
online C++ tutorial: What is an Object?
 
 
 
 Section 6: Introduction to Objects 
Section 6.1: What is an Object?
 Objects defined 
So what is an object? An object is a component of a program
that knows how to perform certain actions and to interact with
other pieces of the program. Functions have previously been 
described as "black boxes" that take an input and spit out an
output. Objects can be thought of as "smart" black boxes. 
That is, objects can know how to do more than one specific
task, and they can store their own set of data. Designing a 
program with objects allows a programmer to model the program
after the real world. A program can be broken down into
specific parts, and each of these parts can perform fairly
simple tasks. When all of these simple pieces are meshed together
into a program, it can produce a very complicated and useful
application.
Let's say that we are writing a text-based medieval video game. 
Our video game will have two types of characters: the players 
and the monsters. A player has to know the values of certain 
attributes: health, strength, and agility. A player must also 
know what type of weapon and what type of armor they possess.
A player must be able to move through a maze, attack a monster,
and pick up treasure. So, to design this "player object", we 
must first separate data that the player object must 
know from actions that the player must know how to 
execute. The definition for a player object could be:
Player Object:
data:
 health
 strength
 agility
 type of weapon
 type of armor
actions:
 move
 attack monster
 get treasure
END;
 Member Data and Member Functions 
Data that an object keeps track of is called member data
and actions that an object knows how to do are called 
member functions. Member data is very similar to variables
in a regular function in the sense that no other object
can get access to that data (unless given permission by 
the object). Member data keeps its values over the life of
an object.
 Objects and Instances 
There is a very important distinction between an object
and an instance of an object. An object is actually 
a definition, or a template for instances of that object. 
An instance of an object is an actual thing that can be 
manipulated. For instance, we could define a Person object,
which may include such member data as hair color, eye color,
height, weight, etc. An instance of this object could be
"Dave" and Dave has values for hair color, eye color, etc.
This allows for multiple instances of an object to be created.
Let's go back to the medieval video game example and define 
the monster object. 
Monster Object:
data:
 health
 skin thickness
 claws
 tail spikes
actions:
 move
 attack player with claws
 attack player with tail
END;
Now, our game could have one instance of a player:
Player Instance #1:
data:
 health = 16
 strength = 12
 agility = 14
 type of weapon = "mace"
 type of armor = "leather"
END;
and our game could have two instances of monsters:
 a tough one: and a weak one: 
 
Monster Instance #1:
data:
 health = 21
 skin thickness = 20
 claws = "sharp"
 tail spikes = "razor sharp"
END;
 
Monster Instance#2:
data:
 health = 9
 skin thickness = 5
 claws = "dull"
 tail spikes = "quite dull"
END;
 
Notice how an instance of an object contains information
on member data, but holds nothing about member functions.
Every instance of the Monster object performs "attack player"
the same way. There is a series of steps in this member
function. But each instance of the monster has its own
value for the member data. In the preceding example, we 
can tell the two monsters in our game apart, because of 
their member data. One monster is tough and the other monster
is weak.
Let's say that we had a "Battle" function in our game. The
pseudocode for it may go something like the following:
Function Battle(parameters: _player = the Player Object instance
 _monster = the Monster Object instance)
 turn = PLAYER; 
 while ((_player's health > 0) AND (_monster's health > 0)) {
 if (turn == PLAYER){ 
 player attack's monster;
 turn = MONSTER;
 }
 else {
 monster attack's player
 turn = PLAYER;
 }
 }
} // END FUNCTION Battle
 In the "attack" phase, the attacking person would
somehow deduct points from the defending person. Let's say that
the player was fighting with the weaker monster. The weaker 
monster's health value is 9. If the player attacked the monster
and did 5 points of damage to the monster, the monster's new
health value would be 4. The monster keeps this value as its 
health value until it is undated again. So if the monster ran
away at this point, and later in the game, the player discovered
the weaker monster again, it's health value would still be 4.
 Summary 
Objects are ways of bundling parts of programs into small,
manageable pieces. Objects are simply a definition for a type
of data to be stored. An instance of an object contains 
meaningful information, these are manipulated by the program.
There can be more than one instance of an object. Instances of
objects keep
track of information, called member data, or instance variables.
This data is kept track of by the instance until it no longer
exists. Object instances also know how to perform certain 
functions, called member functions, or class functions. Every
instance of an object performs the same steps when carrying
out a member function, although the steps can be influenced
by the instances' present member data.
 
 
 
