
	Yet Another Code Site - New Rich Edit 3.0 Features
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Yet
	Another Code Site
	 
	
New Rich Edit 3.0 Features
Here is a list of features new to or extended in Rich Edit 3.0. 
This information is taken largely from Microsoft's developer site as
of December 13, 1998, and I consider it to be very preliminary. 
I have only begun testing of these features and, therefore, cannot
attest to the accuracy of the information. To get the most
up-to-date information, see the Microsoft developer site link on the
main page and keep checking back with this site.
I have organized the information into the following rather
arbitrary categories (see the last category for new information):
	
- 
Overview 
	
	
- 
Improved
	character and paragraph formatting 
	
	
- 
Improved
	program control 
	
	
- 
Nice
	finishing touches 
	
	
- 
Where
	to get it
	
- 
Got
	it &#150; ready to code
	
- 
The
	Latest Information
Ok, some of this page is old news. This Rich Edit 3.0 thing
is evolving each day so check the last category ("Latest
Information") for the newest information.
Overview
The Rich Edit 3.0 control adds or improves support in a number of
areas. Most notable to me are:
	
- 
Improved character and paragraph
	formatting including built-in normal and heading styles, paragraph
	numbering, basic table support, and more underline types and colors.
	
	
- 
Better program control such as the
	ability to defer screen updates across multiple content changes (you
	should be able to reduce screen flicker when inserting and modifying
	multiple lines of text), fetching and restoring the current scroll
	position precisely, suspending and resuming undo recording, and the
	ability to (as I read it) increase or decrease the size of fonts in
	text containing mixed text sizes while retaining relative font
	sizes. Also, there is improved support, or at least better
	documentation, for the Text Object Model (TOM). 
	
	
- 
Other nice finishing touches such
	as support for smart quotes, soft hyphenation, and an italics
	cursor. 
	
Finally, there is better support for internationalization and "RTF
roundtripping." (For more information on international
character support, see the Microsoft Developer Network link on the
main page.) RTF roundtripping, as I understand it, is the
ability to retain RTF formatting that the Rich Edit control cannot
actually display. For example, Rich Edit 2.0 had a number of
character and paragraph formatting codes that the control could
recognize but not display. You could recognize, and even set,
formats such as paragraph borders programmatically even though the
control would not actually display them. This is presumably
useful only if you would be viewing the RTF text later in a more
sophisticated word processor such as Microsoft Word. I assume
that "improved RTF roundtripping" means that RTF formatting
not supported directly by Rich Edit 3.0 will not be lost when editing
the text.
Anyway, here are some of the details:
Improved character and paragraph formatting
Paragraph numbering
Rich
Edit 2.0 supported setting paragraph numbering styles for RTF
roundtripping. The control now supports displaying numeric,
upper/lower alphabetic, or Roman numeral paragraph numbering. 
The depth of paragraph numbering is apparently limited to one (per
the online documentation). These features are implemented in
the existing CHARFORMAT2 and PARAFORMAT2 structures.
Simple tables
Support for
simple tables (no wrapping inside cells) is now included. The
user interface is limited -- there is no support for resizing -- but
you can delete and insert rows. By enabling "advanced
typography," you can set column alignments within cells. 
See the EM_GETTYPOGRAPHYOPTIONS and EM_SETTYPOGRAPHYOPTIONS messages
for enabling the column alignment within table cells. (I am
unsure how to put text into tables, but check back here occasionally
for more information as I get it.) 
Normal and heading styles
Normal
style and heading styles 1 through 9 are supported. See the
EM_SETPARAFORMAT and EM_GETPARAFORMAT messages and the TOM
interfaces. 
More underline types
Rich
Edit 2.0 implemented more underline types than were actually
documented. Now we get documented support for dashed, dash-dot,
dash-dot-dot, and dot underlines. See the CHARFORMAT2 structure
for more information. 
Underline coloring
15 colors
of underlines are now documented as supported. See the
CHARFORMAT2 structure for more information. 
Hidden text
RTF roundtripping
support is now provided for hidden text. 
Improved program control
Zoom
In older
versions of the Rich Edit control, the size of the text within the
Rich Edit control on the screen was a direct function of the
formatted size of the text in the control. Now, you can
increase or decrease the size of the text within the control from
1/64th to 64 times the underlying font size. (Tests indicate a
downward limit of 100%, significant visual evidence of upward scaling
beyond 200%, and bugs in reporting the true zoom factor when less
than 100% (i.e., ttp://www.microsoft.com/msdownload/platformsdk/setuplauncher.htm
From the Platform SDK page, there is a link to the Platform SDK
Download page labeled as something like "Platform SDK setup." 
Currently, it takes you to the second link above which allows you to
run the first stage setup program. This setup program lets you
select which Platform SDK components to download. Once you have
selected the items to download, it runs a second setup program that
actually downloads and installs the selected items. Warning: 
I was worried that Microsoft would again change the links so I
grabbed all of the components at once. This download took
several days at 56 kbps to complete and, I think, more than a
gigabyte of disk space. You probably will want to be somewhat
more selective although I cannot tell you what, exactly, you will
need for Rich Edit 3.0.
Note: The Platform SDK help files contain the Rich Edit
documentation. This is great -- no more going online to get the
basic information!
Many thanks to Mr. Zulkarnain and Mr. Bullock for giving us
something to work with. If you know where to find more recent
versions of these files, please share.
Got it &#150; ready to code
Rich Edit 3.0 is no more complex than Rich Edit 2.0. 
Microsoft recently revamped the MSDN site (see the Links page) and it
now includes substantially more information about both versions. 
Unfortunately, some of the information is inaccurate or easily
misunderstood, so I will be working through it for a while. Let
me know what you learn.
Once you have Rich Edit 3.0 installed, see the Rich
Edit 3.0 Code Samples page for what I have learned about the Rich
Edit 3.0 so far and code to get you started using it with the Borland
VCL.
The Latest Information
Joel Harrison informed me that the "\page" RTF code does
actually work in Rich Edit 3.0. I have tested and confirmed
this with Rich Edit 3.0 version 5.30.18.0300 on Windows 98. 
This is great news -- thanks, Joel! Now the bad news: The
obvious way to insert a page break in Rich Edit 3.0 is to use the
PFE_PAGEBREAKBEFORE and PFM_PAGEBREAKBEFORE flags in the PARAFORMAT2
structure. This inserts a "\pagebb" RTF code which
does nothing when rendering. So how do we insert the "\page"
code and, once inserted, how do we find and remove it?
Shawn Bullock offers the following: "Just as an update,
there is now another source where one might find the necessary header
files and (dlls?)... the September Edition of Platform SDK. My
CD came with the October shipment of MSDN Universal (likely
professional also) and can still be downloaded in the usual spot, and
is also available as part of the Windows2000 SDK, too..."
New information as of January 13, 2000
Would you believe that Microsoft has a page that looks up DLLs and
tells you where they came from? Thanks to a frequent but
anonymous (by his request) visitor for the following links: 
To search Microsoft's site for the distribution code/product that
contains a specific DLL. See The
Microsoft DLL Help Database.
He added the following:
For NT -- So you don't have to redownload the whole platform sdk,
I should also say that the msi package is available at:
ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/developr/PlatformSDK/Jan2000/msi/winnt/x86/instmsi.exe
or For Windows 9x -- 
ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/developr/PlatformSDK/Jan2000/msi/win95/instmsi.exe
Eric DuPont provided the following source for Rich Edit 3.0
(riched20.dll; version 5.30.13.0906): 
http://www.smartftp.com/smartftp/Riched30.exe. 
The home page is http://www.smartftp.com/download.html.
Please send me additional information as you get it or
figure it out so that we can help those that follow -- rest assured
that you will get full credit for your contributions to the site.
In particular, if you learn how to use new functionality
or identify other products with which Rich Edit 3.0 is distributed,
please let me know.
	
	
	
	
	
Home
	| Top
	Of Page |
	Code
	| Papers
	| FAQs
	| Links
	| Search
	| Feedback
	 
	
	
Page updated January 16, 2000
	 
	
Copyright
© 1998, 1999, 2000 Thin Air Enterprises and Robert Dunn. 
All rights reserved.
