
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.delorie.com/djgpp/v2faq/faq4_4.html 
 
search 
 
Node:What to download,
Next:Disk space,
Previous:DJGPP by WWW,
Up:Getting DJGPP
4.4 What Files to Download?
Q: What's the minimum set of .zip files I need to download?
A: This depends on what you are planning to use DJGPP for.
The following table lists required and recommended files by category. 
An alternative method of choosing the files suitable for your needs is
to use the DJGPP zip-picker feature which will guide you through the
process.
- To only run DJGPP-compiled programs, you MUST download all of
these10:
v2/readme.1st
This explains how to install DJGPP and get started with using it.
v2/faq230b.zip
The latest edition of this FAQ list. Use it whenever you have problems
installing and using DJGPP.
v2/frfaq21b.zip
This FAQ list translated into French by Francois Charton.
v2misc/csdpmi4b.zip
CWSDPMI, the DJGPP free DPMI server. DJGPP programs require DPMI
services, which provide a way to run 32-bit protected-mode programs
under real-mode MS-DOS. (If you can get DPMI services in your
environment, like if you run under Windows, QDPMI, or OS/2, you don't
need CWSDPMI, but I recommend downloading it nonetheless so you can try
it in case you have trouble with other DPMI servers.)
v2misc/pmode11b.zip
This is an alternative DPMI server, PMODE/DJ. Its memory footprint is
smaller than CWSDPMI and it can be bundled with DJGPP programs to make a
stand-alone executable that doesn't require a DPMI server to run. 
PMODE/DJ doesn't support virtual memory and its implementation of the
DPMI spec is a bit more restricted than that of CWSDPMI, but it is
faster, and therefore more appropriate for high-performance interrupt
handling.
v2/djtzn203.zip
This archive includes the timezone files, which are used by
several library functions and programs that call those functions, to
translate file time stamps between different time zones. You will need
this archive if you run DJGPP-compiled programs that set file times for
files downloaded from a distant place; one example is an archiving
program such as unzip or Tar. Most people will only need a
single file from this distribution. See zoneinfo files, for a detailed explanation
of these files. 
- For developing C programs (no C++), you MUST download all of the above,
plus the following:
v2gnu/gcc2952b.zip
The GNU C Compiler binaries and docs (including the docs for the C++
compiler).
v2gnu/bnu281b.zip
The GNU Binutils, including as, the GNU assembler; ld, the
GNU linker; and their docs. GCC calls these utilities during
compilation.
v2/djdev203.zip
C header files and libraries, library reference, minimal development
environment (including assembly-level debuggers), DJGPP-specific
utilities and their documentation. Required to compile/link C programs.
v2gnu/txi40b.zip
Info, a stand-alone program to read GNU hypertext documentation files, and
an environment to produce such files. Without info, you cannot
read the C library reference and the docs included with the ported GNU
software packages. This package also includes the install-info
utility, which helps to install Info docs of optional utilities that you
download. Several files required to format Texinfo docs for printing
are also included. 
- For developing C++ programs, you will need all of the above, plus the
following:
v2gnu/gpp2952b.zip
The GNU C++ compiler, (the docs are part of the gccNNNb.zip package,
see above), the C++ header files and standard C++ class
libraries, including the STL, and their docs.
v2gnu/lgp2952b.zip
Additional GNU C++ class libraries. This library is now deprecated
and no longer maintained. I suggest not to use it.
v2gnu/objc2952b.zip
If you want to develop Objective-C programs, you will need this file,
which includes the Objective-C compiler and header files. More
information about Objective-C is available from Brad Cox's home page. Many Objective-C related
links can be found at
. 
- For developing Fortran programs, you will need the C development tools
(no need to download C++ compilers and libraries), plus the
following:
v2gnu/g772952b.zip
The GNU f77 compiler and libraries. 
- The following are some optional packages which you might want:
- Debugging:
v2gnu/gdb418b.zip
GDB, the GNU Debugger and its docs. (Note that the djdev
distribution includes two simpler, assembly-level debuggers,
edebug and fsdb. The latter presents a user interface
similar to that of Turbo Debugger.) 
- Additional development tools (consider getting at least the Make
distribution):
v2gnu/mak3781b.zip
GNU Make program with its docs. (Make is a program that can
automatically compile/link a program given the description of
dependencies between the various source and object files, on a special
file called Makefile.) You should install Make 3.75 or later if
you use DJGPP v2.01 (previous ports of Make have subtle
incompatibilities with v2.01 tools). The DJGPP port of Make supports
Unix-style shells (as well as DOS COMMAND.COM and its
4DOS/NDOS replacements) and can be used to run Unix
Makefiles if you install a Unix-style shell (e.g., bash) and
auxiliary utilities. It also supports long filenames on Windows 9X and
MS-DOS pathnames with drive letters.
v2apps/rhide14b.zip
The RHIDE integrated development environment for DJGPP (similar to
Borland IDE), written by Robert Hoehne. 
The latest version features an integrated debugger, based on GDB code; a
stand-alone version of GDB with a Turbo Vision interface (but not all
GDB features can be used); and support for user interface in languages
other than English (using a port of GNU gettext library). Latest
developments and beta versions of RHIDE are available from RHIDE home page. Binaries
of an improved beta version is available from Andris Pavenis's home page; this version uses TVision
v1.0.9, SETEdit v0.4.39, and its debugging engine is based on
GDB 4.18 and DJGPP debug support from a pretest version of v2.03.
v2/djlsr203.zip
The sources of the DJGPP C library and utilities written specifically
for DJGPP. If you can afford the disk space (it requires about 10MB), I
recommend installing or at least downloading it, so you can easily fix
possible library bugs. Note that beginning with DJGPP v2.02, the
sources for the time-zone-related programs and files are available
separately, in the djtzs203.zip archive.
v2gnu/bsh203b.zip
Bash (Bourne-Again SHell), the GNU shell, and its docs. If you
mostly work in Unix environment, you will feel right at home using
bash as your interactive shell. It is also great as a batch
shell for running Unix-born shell scripts and Makefiles when these are
too complex to convert them to MSDOS. If you install bash, you
should also install auxiliary utilities (Fileutils, Textutils, Sh-utils,
Grep, Diffutils, Findutils, Sed and Gawk) as these are usually invoked
from many shell scripts and Makefiles.
v2gnu/bsn125b.zip
Bison, a Yacc-like parser generator, and its docs. You will need it if
you intend to build a compiler or a parser for some language.
v2gnu/acnf213b.zip
Gnu Autoconf, a tool for producing shell scripts that automatically
configure software source code packages to adapt to target platforms.
v2gnu/dif272b.zip
GNU Diffutils (diff, cmp, diff3, sdiff), and their docs. If you need to
submit patches or changes to DJGPP or GNU sources, you will need the GNU
diff program from this package. diff is also required by
almost all configuration-management packages, such as RCS and
CVS.
v2gnu/emacs.README
v2gnu/em2005*.zip
GNU Emacs, the most powerful, customizable, extensible programmer's
editor known today. The DJGPP port supports mouse, menu bar, pop-up
menus, color syntax highlighting, reading Info documentation and
compilation from within the editor, long filenames on Windows 9X, and
much more. Emacs can and should be used as an integrated development
environment (another alternative is RHIDE, see above). Please
read the file emacs.README before you begin downloading the rest.
v2gnu/fil316b.zip
GNU Fileutils, including ls, rm, cp, mv, and
others. Highlights of the latest port: ls supports colorization
of files (like on Linux), ln -s knows about DJGPP-style
"symlinks" (see symlink feature of DJGPP, elsewhere in this document), install
-s will strip executables on the fly, and all the utilities support
long filenames on Windows 9X and numbered backups (even on plain DOS). 
This package is a must if you want to run Unix shell scripts, as they
use some of these utilities a lot.
v2gnu/find41b.zip
GNU Findutils, including find, xargs, and locate. 
These programs are used to process a group of files which share some
common attributes, like the file name pattern, read/write permissions,
file time-stamps, etc. Since DOS has its own, incompatible program
called find.exe, you will need either to make sure DJGPP's
bin subdirectory is before the C:\DOS directory (for
DOS and Windows 3.X) and C:\WINDOWS\COMMAND directory
(for Windows 9X) on your PATH, or to rename the DOS find
program to some other name. If you don't, you might see the following
message when you try to run find:
 FIND: Parameter format not correct
v2gnu/flx254b.zip
Flex, a Lex-like lexical analyzer generator, and its docs. Required to
build compilers or programs which break streams of characters into
lexical tokens. Used a lot in conjunction with Bison, a parser
generator.
v2gnu/gwk304b.zip
GNU Awk, an interpreter for a powerful text-processing language with
many built-in functions. Gawk is also invoked by many shell scripts, so
if you use Bash or need to run shell scripts, you should download Gawk.
v2gnu/grep24b.zip
GNU Grep package and its docs. The programs of this package are used to
search for strings or regular expressions within files. You will also
need this if you use Emacs (which has commands that invoke Grep) or if
you want to run Unix shells and Makefiles.
v2gnu/idu32db.zip
GNU Id-utils and their docs. These utilities are used to quickly search
for tokens in all the files that comprise a directory tree (e.g., a
large project). They are similar to Grep, but much faster, and
their notion of a token is sensitive to the source language of the
scanned file, so they are more appropriate e.g. for searching variable
names in C source files.
v2gnu/pat254b.zip
GNU Patch program and docs. Required to apply patches to sources given
a source-level patch-file generated by diff.
v2gnu/perl552b.zip
Perl, a powerful scripting and text-processing language implemented as
an interpreter. Many sophisticated scripts, like
texi2html11, use Perl. In particular, the GNU Automake package is
implemented as a Perl script.
v2gnu/sed302b.zip
GNU Sed (a batch editor) program and its docs. Many ported packages
require it during the build process on MSDOS.
v2gnu/shl112b.zip
GNU Sh-utils. A must if you use the port of bash or want to run
Unix Makefiles, but some utilities (such as env or test)
can also be very useful on their own right.
v2gnu/txt20b.zip
GNU Textutils. Includes many useful programs, such as sort,
wc, cat, join, paste, od, and
uniq. Unix shell scripts and Makefiles call some of these
a lot, so you should install this package if you run them. 
- Developing text-mode and graphics GUI applications:
v2tk/grx23.zip
A graphics library for DJGPP. Note that it is still in development, so
some advanced features might not work. GRX is quite portable to other
operating systems: it is known to work with several DOS compilers,
including Borland and Watcom; on Linux with svgalib and X11, and on
several Unix platforms with X11R5 or later version of X-Windows. Also,
GRX is the only library that supports printing out graphics images
(check out the addons/print directory in the GRX distribution). 
A significant drawback of GRX is that its docs is very outdated
and incomplete.
Hartmut Schirmer is the current
maintainer of GRX. GRX is distributed under the GNU Library License
(a.k.a. LGPL). Latest versions of GRX, including fixes to known
problems and plans for future developments can be found on the GRX home page.
v2tk/bcc2grx.zip
The interface library to convert Borland graphics calls into calls to
GRX library functions.
v2tk/allegro/alleg312.zip
A recursive acronym for Allegro Low LEvel Game ROutines, Allegro
is a powerful game-writing and graphics library. It is also an
alternative to GRX (see above), even if you don't need to develop a
game. It is somewhat less portable than GRX to other operating systems,
but its documentation is significantly better and up-to-date. Unlike
GRX, Allegro is not under LGPL, it is free. A port of Allegro to
Win32 and to Linux is in the works (initial versions are available).
By popular demand, Allegro now has its mailing list. To post a message
to the list, send email to allegro@canvaslink.com. To
subscribe to the Allegro list, send a message to
listserv@canvaslink.com with the text subscribe allegro
{your full name}. Another related resource is the Allegro home page.
v2tk/pdc22.zip
A public-domain Curses library, for programming text-mode user-interfaces
which are portable to Unix or ported from Unix.
Version 2.3 of PDCurses was released. It is available via FTP. 
Note that all of the packages have source distributions
(*s.zip) which you can download in case you discover a bug, or
want to know more about how the tools work. The companion *d.zip
files hold the documentation for the package converted into HTML, DVI
and PostScript formats.
For description of additional files not mentioned here, get the file
00_index.txt; it contains a full list of the distribution files and a
short description of every file. 
 
webmaster 
donations 
bookstore 
 
 
delorie software 
privacy 
 
 
Copyright © 2001 
by Eli Zaretskii 
 
 
Updated Apr 2001 
 
Please take a moment to fill out
this visitor survey
You can help support this site by
visiting the advertisers that sponsor it! (only once each, though)
