
 
Really Old News Page 3
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
This is some REALLY 
 old Stuff!
 All the way back 
 to 2/6/98 to be precise!
 
Back to main 
 page
 
6/30 -- Yes I realize it's been a long time. A very long time. A couple days 
 ago I got a few new images from my artist. When I have time I will put 
 them in. But right now my life is pretty hectic. My 8-6 job doesn't help 
 much, and I am working on getting my Eagle Scout rank which I have to 
 finish up in a few weeks. I'm also playing actively in my AD&D gaming 
 "club". Also in the next week I'm also leaving out of town for 
 a week to visit my college for orientation, so I have my hands full. Most 
 likely you will not see any major updates to the game. To be honest perhaps 
 ever again. Once I get to college the idea of a DOS project using the 
 latest 9-year-old technology probably won't excite me as much as DirectX 
 and Direct3D programming, which I could program in half the time than 
 making all of the GUIs for my game. The GUI I spent days on I could have 
 done in Windows in an hour. I'm ready to move to a better environment.
 
I had already made a promise to myself to get this game 
 at least to basic multiplayer mode before I offically stop it, so it's 
 not stopped yet. And I know that I'm really close. I really don't know 
 what's going to happen so just stick around. Perhaps after I get my Eagle 
 early this July that will free up a lot more time. If I do get started 
 on an active basis again, then the biggest issue will be TCP/IP from DOS, 
 which requires a hack into Windows which does not work in '98(very well) 
 or in NT(at all). It will take weeks waiting for bugfixes on the library 
 to do something I can do in a few lines of Windows code I could write 
 in an hour.
 
The next release for sure will be these new images, whenever 
 that happens.
 
6/7 -- As promised, build 12 of PV2143 is out. There are a few issues with 
 the version, be sure to check the news on the game page! I don't know 
 if anyone was having problems with come.to before, but if you were, they 
 are gone now I believe. For some reason sometimes it would work and others 
 it wouldn't. It should be cleared up now hopefully.
 6/6 -- Tomorrow sometime build 12 will be released, with some more graphics, 
 buildings, and collision detection (tanks don't run over each other now.) 
 Within the next week I hope to start trying to conquer multiplayer.
 5/31 -- Updated Project V2143 news, and changed the screenshot to a newer 
 version.
 5/31 -- Added the finished Allegro tutorial to the tutorials section. It is 
 brief, but it was meant to point out some unclear points, and give some 
 tips on what to learn and what to not waste your time on. Everything I 
 learned I learned from the Allegro docs, and I was able to make the game 
 I did -- so putting any more in would be horribly redundant. The real 
 learning will come from the next tutorial I am making.
 5/28 -- Added a new appendix to the tutorials, and started work on the Allegro 
 tutorial, but I'm waiting to release that until I finish the first section 
 so I don't confuse people by leaving them hanging. Also project news -- 
 I have digital MOD music in it now.
 5/25 -- LinkList update to 1.9. This is the "final" version of the 
 library, as I have tested it enough to feel safe about its functions. 
 If you find any bugs in it please notify me. Also build 11 of the game 
 is out, with a super-pumped editor and new fonts! Check the tank news 
 for all the major features added! Also, the game is now in .zip format, 
 as many people found the file-by-file download unpopular.
 5/21 -- Updated the game page with build 10! There are a few important notes 
 on this game -- PLEASE read the news and bugs section.
 5/21 -- Updated a link on the links page. I should be putting build 10 out 
 soon, but a lot of the stuff going into it is very complex and I would 
 like it "closed" enough -- meaning I don't want too many things 
 only half-way active. But it's been SO long since the last release I'll 
 release a new build today or tomorrow for certain, no matter how messed 
 up it is.
 5/19 -- Some more game news, check it out on the game's page. Made some cosmetic 
 changes to the charts in the tutorial. Added two appendices to the tutorial 
 page, more are comming.
 5/17 -- Did some editing with the background. It's 20k larger, but I think 
 it's better since I've always gotten a lot of complaints about it. You 
 like? This white almost seems to brite now, so I changed it to silver 
 here. If I like this color scheme I'll apply it to the rest of the site. 
 Feedback anyone?
 5/16 -- Added the huge section on pointers and debugging for pointers.
 5/16 -- Sorry for the lack of updates recently but last Thursday I graduated 
 and partied all night ;). Since then I've been enjoying a wonderful weeked 
 off school! Since the last release, I've been working on the AI, and adding 
 more enemies, and the new, morphing, player tank now. Right now even before 
 a lot of the AI is in I can't even beat 4 tanks now at a time! By the 
 next release I should have greated added to the editor (to allow for AI 
 editing) and added some more enemies, and perhaps the rest of the tiles 
 (my artist says he'll work on them today.) Also I have added 4 more sections 
 to the C/C++ tutorial.
 5/11 -- Added a registry. If you want to leave a comment on the site, or just 
 present yourself, go ahead and sign the registry!
 5/9 -- Added a link to the links page. Also, I have been working on TCP/IP 
 programming: learning it etc. I might put some BSD socket chat examples 
 up soon, and when/if I release these, this will mean that the game might 
 be going into some multiplayer testing. However at best that would be 
 still a week or two away as graduation and finals approaching will limit 
 my time working on the game, as well as my artists. On that note I have 
 updated the game to build 9, although this is only a fairly small update.
 5/6 -- Fixed the broken link to download the game. It took two days for me 
 to get a mail. Please people, if there is a broken link or you experience 
 a bug in the game please e-mail me. If I fix the bug then I will put you 
 on the credits for being a tester.
 5/4 -- Not a MAJOR update to the game, but build 8 of Project V2143 is out. 
 Mainly it adds the features I mentioned before, and tile art.
 5/3 -- Again, added four more sections to the tutorials.
 5/2 -- I've added to the tutorials section.
 4/30 -- I've worked on the C/C++ tutorial some bit, however the info here 
 is very basic for now. I started the tutorial from the ground up, so it 
 is only useful for programmers starting with these languages, NOT starting 
 with programming, since I assume a basic vocabulary and basic understanding 
 of basic logical structures like loops, decisions, arrays, etc.
 4/29 -- I've updated the Project V2143 news with some updates on what's happening. 
 I haven't been able to work on the game much due to prom this weekend 
 and finals comming up within the next week, so game production will be 
 very slow. I'm still pretty much waiting for the art and sound now before 
 I can do much more.
 4/25 -- The version I posted really was't build 7. I swore I updated it right 
 but I didn't. Anyways downloading it now should fix bugs.
 4/25 -- Build #7 is out, with a virtually complete map editor and a really 
 nasty (cosmetically speaking) transparency bug fixed! Much more stuff 
 posted in project news!
 4/24 -- By the end of this weekend, build #7 (YES 7, not 6), 
 will be released, adding stereo sounds and stereo volume/panning effects, 
 more titlescreen stuff, and basic map editor. The map editor already right 
 now is half-way done on my system.
 4/20 -- I've added a new URL to access my site: http://come.to/gillius , so feel free to use this if you want. However, there is a delay page 
 there, so if you bookmark, still bookmark to this original URL. Only use 
 come.to if you want something easy to remember. Later I might just get 
 rid of that and put up a banner.
 4/17 -- Updated LinkList to 1.8b to fix some silly errors. 
 Also Build 5 of Project V2143 is out, fixing the Save/Load errors.
 4/16 -- There is a big in LinkList 1.8, wait for me to update sometime tomorrow. 
 It seems templates can't work in a multi-file project because they are 
 generated like inlines.
 4/16 -- I apologize for the recent lack of updates, but 
 a trouble area of Project V2143, as well as school troubles have 
 delayed me a bit. Anyways exciting updates in both the game and linklist 
 have been sent to the site.
 4/8 -- Tank Wars to .003a, and a new screenshot. Look for 
 LinkList 1.8 soon. Right now in the Project V2143 testing no bugs 
 have been found, but I will add a swap function to swap two LinkLists, 
 since the the = operator is private.
 4/4 -- Updated LinkList library to 1.7
 4/4 -- Added the Learning C++ section, and made the appropiate restructuring 
 of this site. Also, I've finalized the name for the Tank Wars project 
 as Project V2143: The Price of Justice, or Project V2143 
 for short. V.002alpha is now out.
 4/1 -- Major LinkList lib update, espically a TOTAL rewrite 
 for linklist.cc, which is now an interactive interpreter. You get to pretend 
 like your the computer and manipulate the LinkList (I've drank too much 
 Coke today!!!) Plus, yesterday I made the VERY FIRST build of TankWars!!! 
 I've uploaded it to the site, and check it out! Don't forget to read the 
 news updates there now. Also, look for a C++ entrance tutorial possibly 
 starting in the next week.
 3/31 -- I've actually updated jrnd.h, I had an old file 
 up when I changed over sites from AOL, and copy2.cc has bene updated, 
 now with full explanations and line-by-line commenting. Check back tomorrow 
 for a LinkList library update.
 3/30 -- I've deleted old links and added a new one. Also, 
 I have reset the counter. It wasn't until very recently when I started 
 getting more than one hit a day. That counter lasted since February 6th, 
 and about 300-350 of those 418 counts were either me, or a personal friend 
 I invited. Now I've been getting 5 or so hits a day even, and I reconfigured 
 the counter so that I never trip it.
 3/29 -- I finally got the storyline for the Tank Wars project, 
 and a possible name for both the multiplayer and single player portions(yes 
 the multiplayer has a storyline that fits in with single play!): Project 
 V2143: The Price of Justice. Check out the Tank Wars page for more! Also, 
 LinkList has been heavily updated to version 1.5 now, and I've also been 
 accepted into the Allegro webring! The LinkList quick ref has been "discontinued" 
 because I'm adding too much for a quick ref, and I think the LinkList.h 
 file has adequate documentation.
 3/23 -- The JetFight page 
 on the AOL mirror works correctly now. TankWars plot is almost ready to 
 put up, and perhaps at that time, it'll get a REAL name!
 3/19 -- Some important updates for the future of Tank Wars 
 on its page. Also I've added a lot more programming links, as I noticed 
 my bookmark list growing in this area. So far, the Allegro webring still 
 hasn't responded with rejection or notification at all, so I wonder if 
 the ringmaster is still active? Also updated LinkList library!
 3/14 -- The Tank Wars section is now up. And I am NOT sticking 
 with a generic name like I did for JetFight. Once I get the plot in and 
 think of something it WILL have a real name. Also I am in the progress 
 of joining the Allegro webring.
 3/13 -- Fixed links to be "frame friendly." Added timing of Allegro's 
 fixed trig functions, comparing them to themselves, and also to the floating 
 point versions. The floating point takes between 400 to 500 times the 
 processing time, with the exception of fatan and afatan2, which only take 
 1/2 the time of their floating point counterparts.
 3/6 -- Added Linkref.txt to the LinkList Library as a 1 
 page, printable reference to LinkList.
 3/4 -- The move to Fortunecity is pretty much complete. The only thing left 
 to do there now is figure out their advertising policy. The LinkList library 
 has been updated very recently.
 3/3 -- Total revamp of this site! I will be moving to Fortunecities 
 very soon as I will be losing my AOL account within the next few months. 
 I might run this site as a mirror until I lose it. I've taken off all 
 of the MIDIs. The JetFight zip will remain up on this site only until 
 I lose this account, at which time it will be taken off forever. Many 
 other things have changed, so if you have any comments email me! ALSO 
 IMPORTANT LINKLIST.H INFO--please check the linklist.h entry for VERY 
 important bug info and complier issues.
 2/26 -- Added "Timing" 
 section to Files and Programming Area, updated with amazing linklist results!!! 
 Check it out. Also just now I have discoverd something amazing! I missed 
 the year anniversary of this page, which was 2/6/98! Wow, I've had this 
 thing up a WHOLE year?
 2/21 -- Tank Wars still 
 exists, but it hasn't past the planning/prototype stage yet until I find 
 the ability to make a serious time commitment. I have recently decided 
 to finish my Eagle scout which I must do before I am 18. Plus school of 
 course. I have updated the links page though as well as the files and 
 programming.
 1/21 -- I've updated a 
 little bit on the links page.
 1/13 -- I 
 figured that it was about time for me to update my links page with the 
 latest links. The ones that I update I'll put a date next to it for when 
 they were last verified.
 1/11 -- I've added a new 
 program to go along with the season. It's just a simple snow program that 
 took me about 30 minutes to make but can be a cool screensaver (maybe 
 if I put music and a background to it as well?) Look for it in the files 
 and programming section. As for Tank Wars it is in the planning stage 
 still and has been at a standstill and will be until I decide to make 
 a serious commintent along with other programmers/helpers. Right now I 
 have lots of school work.
 12/21 -- My next project is called TankWars. Yeah yeah I know 
 I come up with these original titles. Well if you can come up with a better 
 name let me know!!! Heh. But I will be creating its page soon.
 12/9 -- I've added floating 
 to fixed speed tests in files and prog with AMAZING results!!! If you 
 program Allegro you MUST see this. I've also added intclass.cc for those 
 learning constuctors and = operators, who want to see exactly when each 
 is called, when, and how many times. More copies are made than one usually 
 thinks.
 12/8 -- I have confimed the messed up data at the top of the 
 page. This seems to happen in Netscape Communicator, and does it in my 
 Netscape 4.5. I can't do anything about browser wars... That is a midi 
 file, which works perfectly in MSIE. When I had the midi file to work 
 in Netscape, MSIE users couldn't use it, or mac netscape users. There's 
 not much I can do. Netscape 4.0 doesn't display the trash, but the midi 
 doesn't work either.
 As too website news, the files and programming area has been revamped 
 to fit both the needs of learning programmers wanting access to my libraries, 
 and gamers wanting to try out my games.
 12/3 -- Unfortunately, 
 I have some very bad news. JetFight has now been discontinued!!! I will 
 shortly be putting up the latest version, .20. For reasons why I left 
 check out the JetFight page. I will however, be probably starting on a 
 new project.
 11/11 -- JetFight is progressing, but I haven't updated the 
 game yet. I will however, be splitting up the zip, since it is getting 
 large, and the jet32.dat doesn't change. Check out the new screenshots 
 on the JetFight page, and the latest updates.
 11/7 -- Jetfight up to 
 v.019a now. I think the version I uploaded had a fatal bug in it and couldn't 
 be loaded at all, I believe, so this version should be much better ;)
 11/4 -- Yet another major 
 update to my game. Check out its page to see what is new. Unfortunately 
 I have been hvery busy at school lately and haven't had as much time as 
 I'd like to work on the game and update my page, but there is still a 
 lot of progress going on despite my lack of updating here. I have also 
 updated the page with a new function in jrnd.h
 10/23 -- Whew! It sure 
 had been awhile since I updated my game. I've worked on it a tiny bit, 
 about at much as to say that if I said "MASSIVE UPDATE" as I 
 did before, I would be making a massive understatement. The game is about 
 2/3rds complete code-wise. After that all there is left to do is the graphics 
 and such.
 10/15 -- I finally broke down and decided I should update this 
 page. I have done soo much I don't even KNOW what's been updated! I've 
 personally worked 18 or so hrs in the last 2 days on my game, and my grfx 
 designer Stephen has worked for 10-11 hrs. Just check it out.
 10/11 -- Jetfight v.015a 
 is now out! Oh yeah. Check the page for the latest info -- screen shots 
 are now up! I'll put up a shot from in-game when I get a chance.
 10/7 -- WOW! I just got 
 the title screen in tonight from Jason Asato and it is so cool! I couldn't 
 resist the urge to put it in. ASAP I will be putting in the menuing system, 
 which I have been waiting to do for a lont time. Now if only I could get 
 a font. . .
 10/7 -- Unfortunately, 
 due to schoolwork and being a senior, I haven't had too much time to work 
 on my project. But I had forgotten to put someone up my credits page, 
 so he is up there now. Sorry about using the same MIDIs all the time, 
 but if I had time I'd change those too ;).
 10/4 -- Updated the credits in JetFight page and added a new 
 program.
 10/1 -- JetFight game upgraded 
 to v.012a. Basically it not much new on the outside, but I totally reoganized 
 my code again and rewrote the structure of it. Now, soon, the map editor 
 and the menus will be going up soon to check back.
 9/25 -- I have upgraded 
 my copy of Allegro, to 3.0 + WPI. I have recompiled my JetFight game with 
 the library, plus I have added in a few bugfixes and such. Check out the 
 JetFight page for more detail.
 9/24 -- I am putting up 
 my JetFight game. I still haven't found a good name for it yet, so if 
 you have any good ideas, e-mail me. Check out the JetFight page under 
 Files and Programming page!
 9/22 -- This page is newly updated!!! I'm going to be putting 
 up my latest project online soon! I'll be making a whole page devoted 
 to it under the Files and Programming page. You may have also noticed 
 that I took out Cresendo. Some people have complained about the plug in 
 so I have put the MIDI in HTML background music. So far I've seen it work 
 in MSIE 4.0, but not Netscape 4.0. I'll see about the solution soon. If 
 you have any suggestions about choosing plug-in over HTML, then e-mail 
 me.
 
Hehe I am an idiot! In the process of converting 
 my page over to another editor and remaking the page I accidently LOST 
 the 3/31 to 4/18 news!!! There was a gap in page updates from 4/18 to 
 9/22 however. Basically I just updated my programs in the news so no biggie.
 
3/31 -- For any of those who downloaded the stars screensaver 
 with the intentions of looking at the code, well, oops, I forgot to include 
 the jrnd.h file! Look for it on the files and programming page. 
 
 3/30 -- I have put up the 3DFX interview I have had with [RoCkY] on IRC EFNET. I was thinking 
 about buying a new 3D card, so I talked to him to get the details of the 
 3DFX series of cards. Looks like I'm getting a lot of new news, 
 maybe I'll have to create an old new section. 
 3/27 -- I have updated the stars screensaver to a better version. 
 Now the number of foreground stars can be changed since the stars array 
 size is now determined in runtime, and the "floating point exception" 
 bug has been fixed. If any of you encounter bugs in the program, 
 let me know. 
 3/26 -- Files area and programming area have been set up. 
 Stars DOS screensaver put in files area. Also more midi's on these 
 pages and on the Not-So-Secret Music Page. MANY links added and 
 updated. 
 3/15 -- It's been awhile since the last update; soon, 
 I'm going to put up a page about C, C++, DJGPP, and Allegro programming 
 (links to these sites on links page now). Right now I've added places 
 you can contact me at, if you want to chat/ask about programming, or if 
 you just want to annoy me ;). 
 2/21 -- If you noticed that some of the links didn't work, this is because 
 I am having problems with Netscape Composer and the fact that Windows 
 isn't case sensitive, but HTTP protocol is, so some files weren't found. 
 these should (HOPEFULLY) be fixed now. 
 2/19 -- Check out the Not-So-Secret Music page. I've put up more midis, 
 and the midis that play here on the pages and others can be downloaded. 
 
 2/17 -- I've added the internet status report and this news section, and 
 a link to the cartoon-a-day page on Andover.net. Look here for updates 
 on this page, and on any relevant events in my Real Life or in the online 
 world as a whole. 
 2/6 -- This page is created! If you have ANY comments or suggestions 
 at all, espically about the layout of this main page, lemme know with 
 the mail link below. I'm not sure I like the layout of my main page 
 anyways, but it's the best I can come up with so :P
 
Back to main 
 page
 
 
 
 
