
 BCBDEV.COM: FAQs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q: Create a design time package for registering components in a runtime package.
Answer
If you install a component in C++Builder, by default the component will be added
to the user package. In BCB5, the name of the user package project is DclUsr50.bpk.
In other versions of BCB, the name of the user package varies a little bit. The project
file for the user package can be found in the $(BCB)\lib directory.
The user package is both a runtime and a design time package. This means that the package
contains both the code for the component and the code for registering the component into
the IDE. It also means that that the package BPL file will be used by both the BCB
IDE and by EXEs that use the package (assuming that use of runtime packages was on when the EXE
was built).
For lightweight use with just a handfull of components, the user package proves to be adequate.
However, you may need to customize your use of packages if you have a component that registers
a property editor or a component editor. For advanced components, you should separate your code
into two packages. One package should be a runtime only package. The runtime package contains
the actual source code for the component. The second package should be a design time only package.
The design time package contains code for registering the component. It should also contain the
code for any custom property or component editors, as well as code for registering those editors.
 
Note:
The runtime package and the design time package cannot have the same name. To delineate between the two, I like to
append _rt to the name of runtime packages, and _dt to the name of design time packages. The packages that
are shown in this FAQ are called test_rt.bpk and test_dt.bpk.
 
Here are the steps to follow if you want to separate your component into both a runtime package
and a design time package. The steps are broken into two groups. The first group deals with creating the
runtime package, and the second group covers the design time package. These steps assume that you are starting
with an existing component called TComponent1 that was created with the File-New Component wizard.
Creating the runtime package
1: Create a new package by running the File-New Package wizard. Save the package as test_rt.bpk.
2: When BCB creates a new package, it configures it to be both a design time and a runtime package. We want
test_rt.bpk to be a runtime only package. To make the change, open the project options for the package and go to the
Description tab. Check the Runtime Only radio button. While you have the project options open, you should also
fill in a description for the package. Figure 1 shows the changes that we made.
 
Figure 1. Configuring a runtime only package
 
3: On the linker tab of the project options, make sure that the Generate Import Library and
Generate .lib file options are both checked. They are usually already checked for you when you create the package. The
Generate Import Library option sets the /Gi linker switch. This switch tells the linker to generate a .BPI
file when the package is built (BPI files are import libraries for the BPL dynamic link library). The
Generate .lib file option sets the /Gl (lower case L) linker switch. This option tells the linker to generate a static
library for the package. This library is used by projects that statically link to your package. This occcurs when users uncheck the
Runtime Packages check box in their project options.
4: If your want to be able to debug into the source code for your component, then you should configure the rest of
the project options for debugging. This can be done in one step by clicking the Debug button on the Compiler tab of the
project options. If you don't want to debug your component source, then you should do a release build instead. If you plan on giving
your package to other users, then you should do a release build. In this case, click the Release button on the
Compiler options tab.
5: Add the CPP or PAS files for your component to the runtime package project. This can be
done by right clicking the big Add button on the package project manager. Enter the file names for your component and
click OK. You can also create a new component from this dialog.
For this FAQ, we are using a component called TComponent1 which resides in component1.cpp. This CPP file
should be added to the runtime package project.
6: When you create a new component in C++Builder, the component source includes code for registering the component.
Since we are creating a separate design time package that will register the component, we don't need or want the component source to
contain registration code. Open the code for your component and remove the registration code. The code snippet below demonstrates
what should be removed.
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------
#include 
#pragma hdrstop
#include "Component1.h"
#pragma package(smart_init)
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------
// ValidCtrCheck is used to assure that the components created do
// not have any pure virtual functions.
//
static inline void ValidCtrCheck(TComponent1 *)
{
 new TComponent1(NULL);
}
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------
__fastcall TComponent1::TComponent1(TComponent* Owner)
 : TComponent(Owner)
{
}
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------
// REMOVE HERE!!!!
// Remove everything from here down, including the namespace.
namespace Component1
{
 void __fastcall PACKAGE Register()
 {
 TComponentClass classes[1] = {__classid(TComponent1)};
 RegisterComponents("Howe", classes, 0);
 }
}
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------
7: At this point, we are done configuring the runtime package. Build the package and
verify that the following files are generated: test_rt.bpl, test_rt.bpi, and test_rt.lib. By default, the
LIB and BPI file will go to the $(BCB)\projects\lib directory and the BPL file will go to the
$(BCB)\projects\bpl directory. These settings can be controlled from the Library tab of the global environment options.
The two settings are called BPL output dir and BPI/LIB output dir.
Creating the design time package
1: Now we are ready to create the design time package. Create a new package by running the
File-New Package wizard. Save the package as test_dt.bpk.
2: Once again, we need to change the package options. This time, we want to configure the package
to be a design time only package. Open the project options and check the Designtime Only button. Fill in the description
for the package as well. Figure 2 shows the new settings for this tab.
 
Figure 2. Configuring a design time only package
 
3: Design time packages are only used from the IDE. There is no reason for users of your component to link with
the design time package. For this reason, you do not need to generate a static LIB file or a BPI import file
for your design time package. Go to the linker tab of the project options and uncheck the Generate Import Library and
Generate .lib file options.
 
Note:
You may want to create a BPI file if your design time package contains code that another design time package might want
to use. For example, if your design time package contains a property editor that you want to share with others, then you will want to
create a BPI file. Other users will add your BPI file to the required list of their design time package.
 
4: You usually will not need to debug the source code for your design time package. For this reason, you probably
want to do a release build of the design time package. Go to the Compiler tab of the project options dialog and click the release
button.
 
Note:
It is possible to debug a design time only package, but it is rare. One situation where you might want to debug a design time package
is if you have a component editor or property editor that you want to debug. If this is the case, then you should do a debug build
of your design time package. See the article on debugging components at design time for more
information on debugging components and editors at design time.
 
5: Create a new CPP file and add it to the design time package. This file will register
the components that are in the runtime package. Save the file as compreg.cpp. Add the following code to the file.
#include 
#pragma hdrstop
#include 
#include 
// Include the header file for TComponent1
#include "component1.h"
#pragma package(smart_init)
// Note:
// The namespace name must be the same name as this CPP file in all lower case
// except for the first letter, which must be uppercase.
namespace Compreg
{
 void __fastcall PACKAGE Register()
 {
 TComponentClass classes[] = {__classid(TComponent1)
 };
 RegisterComponents("Howe", classes,
 sizeof(classes)/sizeof(TComponentClass)-1);
 }
}
6: The design time package needs to link with, or use, the runtime package. The package project manager shows
these dependencies in the Requires node of the tree. The design time package will initially require the VCL package
(VCL50.bpi in BCB5). We need to add test_rt.bpi to that list. From the package project manager, right click
on the Requires node in the tree and select Add from the popup menu. BCB should display a dialog box for adding
packages to the list of required packages. Figure 3 shows this dialog box.
 
Figure 3. Adding a packaged to the list of required packages
 
Use the browse button to find test_rt.bpi. The file should be in the $(BCB)\projects\lib directory.
After you find the file, click the OK button. When the dialog box closes, test_rt.bpi should appear in the
project manager tree. Figure 4 shows what the project manager should look like at this point.
 
Figure 4. The project manager after adding the runtime package to the required list
 
7: You should now be ready to build the design time package. Build the project and verify that the file
test_dt.bpl appears in the $(BCB)\projects\bpl directory. The design time package is now ready for
installation. You can install it by pressing the Install button on the package project manager. You can also install the
package by selecting Component-Install Package from the main menu of BCB.
Notes and Tips:
1: The source code and project files for this FAQ can be downloaded from the link at the bottom of page. If you have troubles
getting your components to install, try building and installing the package projects in the ZIP file.
2: When you install a package, that package must be a design time or a design time/runtime combo package. You cannot
install a runtime only package. In this FAQ, you should install test_dt.bpl, not test_rt.bpl.
3: If your runtime package depends on components in other packages, you will need to add the BPI files for
those packages to the list of required packages. For example, if you have a package that depends on the ADO components, then you
should add vclado50.bpi to the list of required packages for your runtime package. However, don't add anything that
you don't need. If you change a component so that it doesn't rely on a certain package anymore, then you should remove that package
from the list of required packages.
4: If you register a property editor, the registration code and the code for the property editor belongs in the design time
package. If you register one of the existing BCB property editors, then you may need to add additional packages to the required
list for the design time package list. These packages are IDE only packages. This means that the package is a design time only
package from Borland that should not be redistributed to your clients.
For example, let's say that you want to register the DataField property editor for a data aware component that you
have made. The property editor is called TDataFieldProperty. To register this property editor, your design time
package needs to link with dcldb50.bpi and dsnide50.bpi. (the names of those packages will vary from
one version of BCB to the next). It is perfectly fine for a design time package to rely on these files. However, you can't
use them from a runtime package (that doesn't make a whole lot of sense anyway).
The IDE design time BPI files are located in the $(BCB)\lib directory and usually begin with the letters
dcl. You can use TLIB to inspect the contents of a BPI file. The following command creates a text
list file for dcldb50.bpi.
 > tlib dcldb50.bpi, dcldb50.lst
I have a python script that can quickly create a list file for all
of the BPI files in a given directory.
5: Adding a BPI file to the required package list has the following impact on a package:
- A USEPACKAGE macro is added to the main source file for the package.
(ie USEPACKAGE("test_rt.bpi");
- The BPI file is added to the PACKAGES value in the XML source of the project.
The linker sees the PACKAGES value from the XML source. The USEPACKAGE macros appear to only be
used by the IDE. The PACKAGES value in the project XML should match the list of USEPACKAGE macros
in the project source. However, it is possible for these to get out of sync. If this happens, you may need edit the
BPK file in an external editor.
6: The function prototypes for registering property editors reside in dsgnintf.hpp. In past versions
of BCB, it was acceptable to include this file and use its routines from a runtime package. However, with BCB5 that has changed.
You can no longer register property editors and component editors from a package that is both a design time and an runtime package.
The reason for this is that calling these routines from a runtime package means that the functions from dsgnintf.hpp will
be linked with your app. Borland does not want you to deploy these IDE routines with your EXE, and it makes little sense to do so.
In fact, you can't anymore. The property editor and component editor object code resides only in BPL files that you can't
distribute with your app. The code is not available in any of the static VCL libraries that you can link with.
This change in how you use dsgnintf.hpp forces you to split your combination packages into separate runtime and design time
packages.
7: Now that we have covered how to create a runtime package and a design time package duo, it is time for a small taste of
bad news. The way that BCB deals with runtime package projects is seriously flawed. The problem is that unless you take steps to
counteract it, BCB will put the same OBJ modules into the package's static LIB file that it puts into the
dynamic BPL file.
This is a flawed approach. When BCB compiles the CPP files in your runtime package, each component will be
marked for export. This is required because the component must be exported from the BPL file (recall that BPL
files are really just glorified DLLs). However, when you put these OBJs into a static LIB
file, they are still tagged for export. If those OBJs are linked with an EXE project, the functions in the
OBJ will be exported from the EXE. This results in the gratuitous exporting of component methods from your
EXE. It also can result in tremendous amounts of code bloat.
For lightweight use, this exporting problem isn't too big of an issue. However, if you make extensive use of components and packages,
then this can be a real burden. See this article for information on how to solve the
problem of unwanted exports (this article is still being worked on. If you get a 404 error, then the article probably is not yet posted).
8: Borland's IMPLIB utility cannot create a BPI import library from a BPL file. The only way to
create a BPI file is to have the linker generate one when it links the BPL. The linker will generate a BPI
file if you pass it the /Gi switch.
9: A design time package can register components for more than one runtime package. The relationship does not have to
be one to one. I employ a 2-1 relationship on one of my projects at work. I decided to separate my runtime packages into two groups:
one package with visual components and one package with non visual components. I did this because I have NT service projects and
console mode projects that need to use the non-visual components but not the visual components. By splitting the runtime package into
two packages, I eliminate the dependency between my non-visual projects and the visual components. Both the visual and the non-visual
components are registered from the same design time package.
10: It is perfectly safe to register pascal components from a C++ registration unit. In our example, COMPREG.CPP could
have registered a component from a pascal unit. Just as in the C++ example, the pascal component unit should not contain a registration
function.
For the most part, the reverse scenario is not true. You cannot register a C++ component from a pascal registration unit. If you
really want to do this, you can, but it requires a tremendous amount of unecessary work.
 Downloads for this FAQ 
 faq97.zip Project and source files for this FAQ. 
 
 
Copyright © 1997-2000 by Harold Howe.
All rights reserved.
 
