
IOCCC Rules
The International Obfuscated C Code
Contest 
IOCCC Rules
[ The judges |
IOCCC home page |
How to enter |
FAQ |
IOCCC news |
People who have won |
Winning entries ]
The 16th International Obfuscated
C Code Contest
Contest Rules
Be sure to also read the IOCCC
guidelines.
(most changes from last year are shown in
color)
To help us with the volume of entries, we ask that you follow these
rules:
 16th International Obfuscated C Code Contest Rules
Copyright (c) Leonid A. Broukhis, Simon Cooper, Landon Curt Noll and
Peter Seebach, 2001.
All Rights Reserved. Permission for personal, education or non-profit use is
granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety
and remains unaltered. All other uses must receive prior permission in
writing from the contest judges.
 Obfuscate: tr.v. -cated, -cating, -cates. 1. a. To render obscure.
 b. To darken. 2. To confuse: his emotions obfuscated his
 judgment. [LLat. obfuscare, to darken : ob(intensive) +
 Lat. fuscare, to darken this is a new entry, y => this replaces an older entry)
title: title of entry (see comments below)
entry: Entry number from 0 to 7 inclusive (your 1st entry should by 0)
date: Date/time of submission in UTC (see comments below)
host: Machine(s) and OS(s) under which your entry was tested
 Use tab indented lines if needed
---remark---
 Place remarks about this entry in this section. It would be helpful if
 you were to indent your remarks with 4 spaces, though it is not a
 requirement. Also, if possible, try to avoid going beyond the 79th
 column. Blank lines are permitted.
---author---
name: your name
org: School/Company/Organization
addr: postal address
 use tab indented lines to continue
 don't forget to include the country
email: EMail address from a well known site or registered domain.
 If you give several forms, list them on separate tab indented lines.
url: http://your/home/page.html or say none if you don't have one
anon: y or n (y => remain anonymous, n => OK to publish this info)
---info---
If your program needs an info file, place a uuencoded copy of it in
this section. In the case of multiple info files, use multiple info
sections. If your entry does not need a info file, skip this section.
---build---
Place a uuencoded copy of the command(s) used to compile/build your program
in this section. It must uudecode into a file named 'build'. The resulting
file must be 521 bytes or less.
---program---
Place a uuencoded copy of your program in this section. It must uudecode
into a file named is 'prog.c'. The resulting file must follow rule #2.
---end---
 Regarding the above format:
 * The title must match the expression:
 ^[a-zA-Z0-9_=][a-zA-Z0-9_=+-]*$
 and must be 1 to 31 characters in length.
 It is suggested, but not required, that the title should
 incorporate the author(s) username(s).
 * The date in the ---entry--- section should be given with respect
 to UTC. The format of the date should be as returned by asctime()
 using the C locale. (see guidelines for more info)
 * You may correct/revise a previously submitted entry by sending
 it to the contest email address. Be sure to set 'fix' in the
 ---entry--- section to 'y'. The corrected entry must use the same
 title and entry number as submission that is being corrected. Be
 sure that you note the re-submission in the ---remark--- as well.
 * With the exception of the header, all text outside of the above
 format may be ignored by the judges. If you need to tell the judges
 something, put it in the ---remark--- section, or send a separate
 EMail message to the judges.
 * Information from the ---author--- section will be published unless
 'y' was given to the respective author's 'anon' line.
 * To credit multiple authors, include an ---author--- section for
 each author. Each should start with ---author--- line, and
 should be found between the ---entry--- and ---build--- sections.
 * The home page URL in the ---author--- section must be fully
 qualified or must be the word `none'.
 * The entry's remarks should include:
 - note if this entry is a re-submission of a previous entry.
 - what this program does
 - how to run the program (sample args or input)
 - special compile or execution instructions, if any
 - special filename requirements (see rule 4 and 5)
 - information about any ---info--- files
 - why you think the program is obfuscated
 - any other remarks (humorous or otherwise)
 * Do not rot13 your entry's remarks. You may suggest that certain
 portions of your remarks be rot13ed if your entry wins an award.
 * Info files should be used only to supplement your entry. They
 should not be required to exist.
 * If your entry does not need an info file, skip the ---info---
 section. If your entry needs multiple info files, use multiple
 ---info--- sections, one per info file. You should describe
 each info file in the ---remark--- section.
 * Your sections must in the same order as in the above template.
 * The size limits of the program source apply to the decoded version
 of the ---program--- section.
 4) If your entry is selected as a winner, it will be modified as follows:
 'build' is incorporated into a makefile, and 'build' is removed
 'prog.c' is renamed to your entry's title, followed by an optional
 digit, followed by '.c'
 your entry is compiled into a file with the name of your entry's
 title, possibly followed by a digit
 If your entry requires that a build file exist, state so in your
 entry's remark section. The makefile will be arranged to execute a
 build shell script containing the 'build' information. The name of
 this build shell script will be your entry's title, possibly followed
 by a digit, followed by '.sh'.
 If needed, your entry's remarks should indicate how your entry must
 be changed in order to deal with the new filenames.
 5) The build file, the source and the resulting executable should be
 treated as read-only files. If your entry needs to modify these files,
 it should make and modify a copy of the appropriate file. If this
 occurs, state so in your entry's remarks.
 6) The uudecoded ---program--- section must be able to be compiled
 cleanly by an ANSI C compiler, or if there are any compile errors,
 they must be documented in the ---remark--- section.
 7) The program must be of original work. All submitted programs are
 are thereby put in the public domain. All explicitly copyrighted
 programs will be rejected.
 8) Entries must be received prior to 01-Dec-2001 23:59:59 UTC. (UTC is
 essentially equivalent to Greenwich Mean Time) EMail your entries to:
 entry@ioccc.org
 You must include the words ``ioccc entry'' in the subject
 of your EMail when sending in your entry! Failure to do so may
 result in the loss of your entry!
 If possible, we request that you hold off on EMailing your entries
 until 01-Oct-2001 00:00 UTC. Early entries will be accepted, however.
 We will attempt to EMail a confirmation to the sender of any entry
 received after 01-Oct-2001 00:00 UTC and before the close
 of the contest.
 9) Each person may submit up to 8 entries per contest year. Each entry
 must be sent in a separate EMail letter.
 10) Entries requiring human interaction to be built are not allowed.
 11) Programs that require special privileges (setuid, setgid, super-user,
 special owner or group) are not allowed.
 12) Legal abuse of the rules is somewhat encouraged. An entry that, in
 the opinion of the judges, violates the rules will be disqualified.
 Entries that attempt to abuse the rules must try to justify why
 their rule abuse is legal in the ---remark--- section.
 13) Your source may not contain unescaped octets with the high bit set.
 I.e., your source may not contain octet values between 128 and 255.
 14) Any program that fails to compile because of lines with trailing
 control-M's (\r or \015) will be rejected.
FOR MORE INFORMATION:
 The judging will be done by Leonid A. Broukhis, Simon Cooper, Landon
 Curt Noll and Peter Seebach. Please send questions or comments
 about the contest, to:
 questions@ioccc.org (not the address for submitting entries)
 You must include the words ``ioccc question'' in the subject of your
 EMail message when sending EMail to the judges.
 Comments about confusing rules and guidelines are also welcome.
 The rules and the guidelines may (and often do) change from year to
 year. You should be sure you have the current rules and guidelines
 prior to submitting entries. To obtain them, visit the IOCCC web page:
 http://www.ioccc.org
 It has rules, guidelines and winners of previous contests (1984 to date).
 NOTE: A copy of the mkentry program may be found at:
 http://www.ioccc.org/official/mkentry.c
And now for the fine print:-)
Some of the changes from the 2000 rules have been denoted
by color type. All decisions of the judges are their
own decisions. This contest is NULL and void* where prohibitied by brain
damaged compilers. The judges and
winners are not responsible for the laws of physics, the compositeness
of 2^11-1, eye strain or the corruption
of the programming of the impressionable. (still reading this are you?)
Ok, if you read this far I guess we can
get to the real reason for this disclaimer ...
This page is
attempt to render the rules into HTML.
While we tried to make this page
reflect the rules, we
may have made some mistakes.
For this reason, this page is not the
official rule set.
And the same reason, the
guidelines
page is not the official guidelines set.
When in doubt, consult the official
rules
and consult the official
guidelines.
See also the official
mkentry.c program.
Now serving 
Authored by:
chongo /\oo/\
Copyright © Landon Curt Noll, Simon Cooper, Peter Seebach and
Leonid A. Broukhis, 2002.
All Rights Reserved.
Permission for personal, education or non-profit use is
granted provided this copyright and notice are included in its entirety
and remains unaltered. All other uses must receive prior permission in writing
from the contest judges.
