
 
Really Old News Page 2
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
This is some REALLY 
 old Stuff!
 Site news from 9/30/99 to 6/30/99
 
Back to main 
 page
 
9/30 -- Some good news! PV2143 has been brought back (more alive)! I had 
 been waiting for libsocket to get worked on more before I worked on it 
 again (to add mutli), so I didn't work on it as much in single player, 
 which was also due to the fact that I have no support for this game whatsoever, 
 and it's becoming too big for just myself to handle. If anyone wants to 
 help with the project, let 
 me know please. Either ways, I have livened 
 it up a bit and made a few changes, reflected in the PV2143 readme, and after some more work, build 15 will be released.
 9/28 -- I finally got around to changing the poll to something new.
 9/27 -- I've put up part of the OOP tutorial I have started working on again, 
 which is about half, or a little more than half, of Chapter V of the OOP 
 tutorial (and a new appendix, F, to go along with this). Also a "tutorial" 
 of sorts on setting up the SB Live! card to work properly in DOS applications 
 is on the site as well.
 9/23 -- I've reorganized and polished the files for PV2143 
 as well as providing a one-part mirror. The maps.dat was left out of the 
 update but I don't remember if it needed it, either ways it is in there 
 now, and should update the maps. Also since I got a SBLive! card, I was 
 able to confirm the rumors that Allegro (a library I use in PV2143 for 
 the multimedia) does not work with this card, as well as many other applications 
 in DOS on some setups. This is a very easy fix, and I will write the guide 
 soon, but for those who know how to change settings, try putting the IRQ 
 on 5 NOT 7, the PRINTER port (as it is by default???)!!!
 9/22 -- Well I finally got my network connection up, as well 
 as some webspace too, which means I may have a one-part download very 
 soon! I am still exploring this new connection. I don't even know my new 
 address quite yet for my webspace. Also a new version of libsocket came 
 out recently which is more stable under 98 but still unusable. This could 
 still work! I'm still working with the author of the library and if results 
 are good, a new MUUDPIC will be released with the new library, and hopefully 
 will work under Win98!
 9/9 -- Well I'm at college but my network is broken so I am writing this 
 manually into my webpage (as opposed to my editor) through this spiffy 
 UNIX SunOS workstation I'm on. I will be awhile until I can get a network 
 connection, for now I don't even have a computer I can program on yet 
 (since I can't download winzip to unzip my compiler!)!!! Needless to say 
 that I am NOT GONE and am still as active as before, 
 so as soon as I get the equipment up I can work on the page and my programs 
 again. . .
 8/28 -- Source code for PV2143 is now freely available to download. I was 
 also notified of an error that maps.dat was missing. Sorry for that folks, 
 the file is available for download on the PV2143 
 page. If anyone has more problems please email me or fill out my contact 
 form because sometimes while it works on mine I'll leave things out that 
 makes it work for others, and I never see the problem.
 8/26 -- Released a new MUUDPIC version. Check its news and/or readme for 
 more details.
 8/20 -- I finnally found the libjpeg, thanks to an email I recieved awhile 
 ago. Actaully he found it awhile ago but I was just too lazy and forgot 
 about it. I finally remember so it's up now. MUUDPIC news has been updated. In the next day or two I am releasing my source 
 code for PV2143 openly, and I will be putting an all-in-one download on 
 my AOL mirror, which does not have FC's lame 1 meg file limit. An AOL 
 account I have access to has 2 megs, enough to hold my game files.
 8/16 -- Preview of MUUDPIC is now RELEASED. The "bugless" 
 beta (meaning the program works and has been successfully tested but not 
 for a long time) of TextGUI is out as well. Keep tuned for a lot of MUUDPIC news in the next few 
 days. More detailed news on its page.
 8/12 -- Fixed doublespacing in Allegro tutorial. I also released the JetFight full source code on the Files and Programming Page. The windowing library that is part of the MUUDPIC is now finished, 
 and within a few days I will release this library separately. It makes 
 text windows, and has the options of border color, text color, and background 
 color, as well as changing the border (so you can make the window "inactive") 
 color without destroying the text inside of it (which is displayed using 
 the Back to main 
 page
 
 
 
 
