 
 
Yet Another Code Site - Advice For New Newsgroup
Users 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 Yet Another Code
	 Site 
 
 
Advice For New Newsgroup Users 
If you have never spent time using Internet newsgroups,
 here is a little background and some advice. I
 suggest you read this before posting messages for the first
 time. At a minimum, read the Posting Advice section
 below. 
 
What Are Newsgroups? 
Newsgroups are message forums where people with common
 interests can post questions, answers, comments, opinions,
 and so on. In some ways, it is like e-mail. Just as
 anyone can send you an e-mail message, anyone can post a
 message to a newsgroup. Unlike your personal e-mail,
 anyone who is interested can read the newsgroup messages. 
 
There are literally thousands of newsgroups available on
 the Internet. They are generally divided into topics,
 or groups, devoted to specific areas of interest or to
 general mayhem. The ones devoted to specific
 interests are sometimes "monitored," that is,
 there are people who read the messages and delete those
 that are unacceptable, e.g., contain profanity or are
 "off-topic" (i.e., the message deals with subject
 matter not appropriate for the newsgroup). Other
 newsgroups are unmonitored. Be aware that unmonitored
 groups may contain messages that you find offensive. 
 
Just as you must configure or attach to an e-mail
 server, or "post office," you must attach to a
 newsgroup server to read the messages stored there. 
 Not all newsgroup servers are available to the public at
 large. For example, Borland operates a public
 newsgroup server for anyone who cares to use it as well as
 a private server for internal use and for beta customers to
 share information. Further, not all servers carry all
 newsgroups. For example, Borland's server carries
 only newsgroups relating to Borland products. 
 
To participate in Borland's newsgroups, you will need to
 set up your newsgroup reader to attach to: 
 
forums.borland.com 
 
See your browser or newsgroup reader help file for
 information about adding a newsgroup server. Borland
 also provides information on setting up your newsgroup
 reader at
 http://www.borland.com/newsgroups/newsinfo.html.
 
 
Posting Advice (And A Few Personal Opinions) 
These are my tips for happy newsgroup participation and
 improving the chances of getting your programming questions
 answered. Be aware that none of these are absolute
 requirements and, further, some of these suggestions are
 simply my opinion. They are also slanted toward the
 Borland programming newsgroups (and, I suppose, other
 newsgroups where people pose questions and ask for
 answers). 
 
- Read The Posting Guidelines FAQ. Before
you post your first question to a newsgroup, see if you can
find a "posting guidelines FAQ." This will
explain any rules the newsgroup may have. For
example, Borland's posting guidelines prohibit profanity,
forbid HTML posts, discourage excessively long messages,
and do not allow posting messages with binary attachments
(that is, non-plaintext files attached to messages). 
Read the Borland Newsgroup Posting
Guidelines 
 
- Browse First. Spend some time reading
messages before posting to a particular newsgroup for the
first time. This will give you a chance to get an
idea what topics are typically covered by the newsgroup and
who posts there regularly. In fact, you might find
your question already posted by someone else and,
hopefully, answered. 
 
- Search The Archives. Before posting a
question, you might want to search a newsgroup archive to
see if the question has been previously asked and
answered. DejaNews is one such archive, but there are
others. DejaNews archives pretty much all public
newsgroups and it is free, so point your browser to
http://www.dejanews.com/ and give it a
try. Note: 
Google.com has taken over the DejaNews
newsgroup archives.
 
- RTFM (Read The Fine Manual). If you want
to jump into a newsgroup and pass yourself off as an
expert, just watch for a couple of days. You will
find countless questions that are easily answered by
searching the VCL and Windows API help files that ship with
Borland's C++ Builder. On the other hand, if you wish
to start out admitting that you are not an expert, I
suggest that you do a little research yourself. At a
minimum, search the help files. If you do that, you
may not find the answer that you need, but you will
probably learn a lot of things not directly related to your
question and you will be much better prepared to understand
answers to more difficult questions. 
 
- Make Your Message Subject Meaningful. 
Most of the real experts monitor more than one
newsgroup. Their time, like yours, is precious, so
they frequently read only those messages which have a
subject line that "interests" them or sounds like
something that they can help with. To improve your
chances of getting a useful answer to your question, use
meaningful subject lines in your posts. For example,
if your question is about how to solve a problem with Rich
Edit controls, include "Rich Edit" in the
subject. Do not use non-descriptive subject
lines such as "Urgent!," "Help!,"
"How Do I Do This?," "Must Have An Answer By
Monday," "I Am Truly Lost!," or the like
without including the real topic. If you do, you are
reducing your chances of getting a useful answer to your
question. 
 
- Do Not Cross-Post. Posting a question to
more than one newsgroup is called "cross-posting"
and is strongly discouraged. Post your question to a
single newsgroup and wait a couple of days for an
answer. If several newsgroups seem to be related to
your question, pick one and post your question there
initially. If you are really uncertain which
newsgroup is appropriate for your question, you should
still post a single question to a single newsgroup, but you
can include a request to "please direct me to the best
newsgroup for this question if this is not the right place
to ask" in the message. Rest assured that
someone will point you to the "right" newsgroup
if you are in the wrong place. 
 
- Watch Your Replies For Cross-Posts. If
someone has posted a message to multiple newsgroups and you
are replying, you can easily cross-post the reply. 
Most newsgroup readers automatically post replies to all of
the groups where the original message was posted. So,
when you are replying to a message, look at the list of
destination newsgroups and, if there is more than one, pick
the best one and remove the others. 
 
- Be Courteous. We all have opinions and
newsgroups generally encourage everyone to feel free to
express them. With rare exceptions, no one is trying
to start an argument. If you watch closely, you will
find that those that try to be disagreeable are generally
met with silence. If you think that someone is
deliberately being rude, I suggest that you simply not
respond. If you feel compelled to respond, send your
message directly to the e-mail address of the person
posting the message.
 
- Never Post Private E-Mail In A Newsgroup. 
E-mail messages are private communications. Posting
any portion of such a message to a newsgroup without the
sender's permission is simply not acceptable. (If you
really, really must post any portion of a private e-mail
message, either get the sender's permission or remove all
information that might indicate who sent you the message.) 
 
- Nerver Post Copyrighted Code In A
Newsgroup. The companies that host newsgroups
frequently include in their newsgroup posting guidelines
terms that assert that the company has rights to use
anything posted in the newsgroup. Borland is one of
these companies that claims rights to all information
posted. So, if you did not write the code, do not
post it to a newsgroup.
 
- Quote Selectively. When someone posts a
response to a message, it is common practice to quote, or
copy, parts of the the original message in the
response. This is such a common practice that most
newsgroup readers -- and, for that matter, e-mail readers
-- have an option to automatically copy the original
message into the response. This is fine, but delete
the parts of the original message that do not really relate
to your response. For example, if you posted a
question, someone posted a response with source code to
solve your problem, and you are responding with
"thanks for the response -- you solved my
problem," delete the source code from the
response. On the other extreme, please do
quote relevant portions of the message to which you are
responding. 
 
- Think Globally #1. Keep in mind that you
are speaking to the world. If English -- especially
American English -- is your native language, remember that
it is not the native tongue for the majority of the world.
 Frankly, you are lucky that so much of the rest of
the world bothers to learn your language. Be
thoughtful and respectful -- make it easy for those for
which English is a second language to understand you. 
Try to: 
 
- Avoid abbreviations. You may know that
"I would've" means "I would have," but
non-English readers may not. Do not make them get out
their English textbooks. On the other hand, use your
own judgment -- Kenneth de Camargo, a diligent Netizen of a
non-English native tongue and frequent participant in the
Borland newsgroups, tells me that "would've" was
too easy. I am not so sure, since he is most lucid
(usually ) and uses better English than most
Americans, at least in newsgroup posts. 
 
- Avoid slang. "Ain't" is
probably not understood worldwide. Let us hope that
it will never be considered acceptable English anywhere on
this planet. 
 
- Avoid colloquialisms. "Raining cats
and dogs" is probably as funny to a Russian speaker as
"laying a pig on your stoop" is incomprehensible
to you. Again, Dr. de Camargo informs me that this
admonishment may be overly enthusiastic -- and again, I am
not so sure. Use your best judgment. 
 
- Be gracious. Never make fun or jokes of
another person's lack of mastery of English. I should
not have to say it, but it does happen. Personally, I
am convinced that those who do such things fall into one of
two classes: (1) Those who never attempted to learn another
language (and, therefore, do not understand the difficulty
of learning a second language) and (2) those who tried,
failed miserably, and resent those who did not fail equally
as miserably. Do not give others reason to classify
you this way. 
 
- Ask for further elaboration. If you did
not understand the question, try to help out. For
example, ask "Do you mean [this] or [that]?,"
"Shall I suppose you request help with [your best
guess]?," and the like. It is better, in my
humble opinion, to try too hard to help than to try too
little. 
 
- Keep cool. Most often, offenses arise
from mere misunderstanding. Some expressions may have
connotations that were not originally intended when
translated literally from one language to other, and across
cultural borders. I have observed that non-English
speakers sometimes think that "bummer" is
vulgar. Although it is not vulgar to Americans, the
fact that they find it *possibly* vulgar should demonstrate
to you that cultural differences run deep. You should
first assume that anything potentially offensive was not
meant that way. Remember that what is sacred or
profane has a wide degree of cultural variation. 
 
- Post Code. Remember that program source
code is probably the clearest way to answer a non-English
speaker's question. 
 
- Remember that you are from a very, very small
world. After all, the "World Series" is
not considered a "world event" by anyone outside
of the US. This, of course, has little relevance to
the subject at hand -- but Ken made me say it. 
[ Thanks to Dr. Kenneth R. de
 Camargo for many insights on this topic. ] 
 
- Think Globally #2. If English is not your
native language and you are not proficient (good) with
English, please understand that many English-speaking
people, and the vast majority of Americans, never learn
even one other language. So please treat us as idiots
and post a sample of any code that you are having trouble
with. It is better for you to post a long message
stating a question three different ways than to assume that
a single sentence will be understood. 
 
- State Questions (And Answers) Clearly. 
The most common reason for not getting a correct answer is
not stating the question clearly. Where possible,
post a very brief source code example of your
problem. On the other hand, if you are trying to
understand something that is new to you, ask for links to
sites and sources of information rather than asking a
specific question. You can always come back to the
newsgroup to ask specific questions after learning the
basics. For example, if you are starting to learn
about Rich Edit controls, post a request for information
sites before asking how to implement multi-level undo/redo
in Rich Edit 2.0 controls. 
 
- Say Thanks. If you post a question and
someone posts a response that solves your problem, take the
time to post a brief message of thanks. On the other
hand, if the proposed solution did not work, keep in mind
that the responder was trying to help and ask yourself if
your question was clearly stated. Post a response
saying thanks anyway and, if appropriate, explain your
problem again. This lets both the person responding
and anyone else following the thread (an original post and
all of the related replies) know that the response did --
or did not -- solve your problem. 
 
 
 
	 
Home | Top Of Page |
	Code |
	Papers |
	FAQs |
	Links |
	Search
	| Feedback 
	 
 
 
	 
Page updated 
	
 
	 
 
 
Copyright ©
 1998-2001 Thin Air Enterprises and Robert Dunn. All
 rights reserved. 
 
