
 
Itana 1: Old Enemies Reunite
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
Itana 1: Old Enemies Reunite
 
Designed and Programmed by
 Jason Winnebeck
 
Ship and Base Art
 Vivienne Allen
 
Planet Art by
 Justin Jackson
 
Thanks also to NASA for providing free images to use for 
 space art and main menu background
 
Contents
 
About Itana
 Storyline
 The Races
 Gameplay
 Screenshots
 System Requirements
 Current Progress
 Future Releases
 Download
 Source Code
 
About Itana
 
Itana is a multiplayer only 2D space shooter. In some ways 
 the game is like Star Control 2 Melee, in the way that you control a single 
 ship, and ships have special abilities. Some people have said the game 
 reminds them of Subspace, a game that is free now -- but I've never played 
 it.
 
Features
 
800x600 16bit graphics
 Internet/LAN multiplayer
 Windows and Linux support
 Open-join client/server network (like Quake/Half-Life)
 And as usual, sound effects and graphics eye candy.
 
Storyline
 
Four alien races fight for domination 
 over a newly discovered planet in a distant solar system, which has the 
 highest quantities of bollium ever discovered. Bollium is the main material 
 used to fuel the space fold engines for their ships.
 
The zylex discovered the planet first, 
 but the humans just a few days later discovered the planet before a zylex 
 mining colony could be set up. A week later a human colonization ship 
 folded into the system to find out that a zylex colony ship was in orbit 
 already surveying possible landing locations!!!
 
For the last 20 years the four known 
 races: humans, zylex, ornons, and alsetti have been at a cautious peace, 
 in the aftermath of a huge war, in which the races were all so evenly 
 matched that no one gained a real foothold on any of the others. The human 
 central government, the United Planets, did not want to start another 
 war. A galactic meeting was called on the UP headquarters starbase orbiting 
 the human homeworld, Earth.
 
The four races decided that they did 
 not want to start another war, after coercing the warlike ornons, who 
 as usual wanted to stupidly blast away any thing, ship or asteroid or 
 whatnot in their path and wanted to start a new war. The wise alsetti 
 proposed that all races could share the planet and an interspecies colony 
 would be set up there. The arrogant humans and the warlike ornons refused 
 to share the planet. Instead, the zylex proposed that all races send a 
 transforming ship to the new, still unnamed solar system. Upon defolding, 
 the ship would transform into a fully automated base of operations, and 
 launch a single piloted fighter, which would engage the other races. The 
 winner would have undisputed control of the planet. The ornons were eager 
 to fight and so agreed. The humans were convinced that they could win 
 this fight and so agreed. The zylex thought their superior technology 
 would come out on top of this battle and so agreed. The alsetti, who did 
 not wish to fight almost declined to the idea and thought about letting 
 the other races have the planet but decided that they badly needed the 
 fuel and so reluctantly agreed.
 
At the end of the galactic conference 
 the races brought up the point that the planet had not been named yet. 
 They discussed this topic and it was a matter of irony that the planet 
 was named after the Alsetti's delegate's daughter, being as modest as 
 they are. The races then agreed on a month to prepare for the battle that 
 was ahead of them.
 
After a month the four races defolded 
 in the new star system and chose their orbits around the planet. As was 
 decided a single piloted ship came out of the new base. Each race chose 
 its best fighter design and its best pilot. The zylex and humans decided 
 to risk the battle with new designs that were quickly put together. The 
 designs were untested but used state of the art technology. The alsetti 
 used their traditional, proven design. The ornons used the only ship design 
 that was intelligently built enough to face the other fighters one-for-one 
 (although some doubt the design is actually the ornons' but instead designed 
 by a human firm, which was heavily paid in secret by the ornons. This 
 is only a rumor, however).
 
Each race was very wary of this battle. 
 The wise alsetti commander was especially wary of the battle. She thought, 
 given the events in the past, would each race REALLY stick to their pact? 
 Would the other races simply let this simple battle decide everything 
 and then allow the one race sole control over the largest known deposit 
 of bollium in the galaxy?! She decided to prepare their fleets and increase 
 military production just in case. Can the others be trusted? Only time 
 will tell.
 
The Races
 
Humans
 
 
The humans always think they can survive and win the fight. 
 To some extent their arrogant belief has some truth to it. The well-balanced 
 and adaptable humans, although somewhat weak in comparison to the other 
 races have found ways to survive situations that the other races thought 
 were impossible to survive in.
 
The human ship uses an ultra-high speed machinegun array 
 as its primary weapon. The human ship can cloak, appearing translucent 
 while it is firing and completely dissapears when doing nothing. Other 
 players can see the thrust comming out of the cloaked ship.
 
Zylex
 
 
The zylex are the most ingenious and technological known 
 race in the galaxy. They were the first ones to discover that by folding 
 space-time they could travel huge distances in just a matter of days. 
 Their ships have the best propulsion systems but their military prowess 
 is much less glamorous.
 
The zylex make the fastest ships in the galaxy. A laser 
 serves as the primary weapon of this ship, and as a special ability they 
 can travel through asteroids without injury, a system that was developed 
 when it was discovered that Zylex pilots flew so fast they could not avoid 
 many obstacles.
 
Alsetti
 
 
The alsetti are considered by the other races to be the 
 wisest and the most conservative, and although they stick strongly to 
 tradition, their tradition is much more open, flexible, and less discriminatory 
 than the other races'. For example they do not discriminate based on gender 
 (women roughly equal men in the armed forces). They are usually withdrawn 
 and shy, and would rather have peace than fight. But even they know that 
 sometimes fighting is inevitable and have developed a strong military 
 capable of keeping intruders out although not as capable of invading.
 
The alsetti ship has the infamous alsetti blaster as its 
 main weapon. Its secondary weapon is the parabolt that paralizes an enemy 
 ship for a short time.
 
Ornons
 
 
The ornons are the most belligerent of the races, and also 
 the stupidest. Their solution to everything is to destroy it, and the 
 other races have a hard time of convincing the ornons of anything else. 
 They have the strongest firepower in the universe, but being as stupid 
 as they are their only tactic of a frontal assault makes them extremely 
 predictable and even easier to destroy.
 
Because their ship is so slow they mounted four guns in 
 four different directions on this ship. At the front of the ship the ornons 
 have mounted a plasma bolt cannon, the most devastating weapon in the 
 known universe.
 
Gameplay
 
The game starts with 2 or more stations in orbit around 
 the planet at random distances. The stations will orbit around the planet 
 at different speeds according to their distance. This will encourage the 
 players to change who they fight against when two stations come close.
 
The fighters that launch have the capability to fight and 
 survive totally on their own, however when they fight they take a large 
 amount of energy, faster than their small bollium reactor can usually 
 supply. Each fighter starts will a large pool of energy, which will slowly 
 regenerate after time, about as fast as the engines can burn it, so a 
 ship will not gain much extra energy while moving (and therefore would 
 have to stop to regenerate at any significant rate). When a fighter gets 
 low on energy it can dock with the automated station which will "refuel/reenergize" 
 the ship.
 
The shields, engines, energy weapons, and afterburners all 
 use energy. Engines, weapons, and afterburners draw from the main battery, 
 but the shields use a separate battery, to which the pilot can move energy 
 freely between the batteries. All ships also have armor which does not 
 regenerate (although the humans have the special ability to mend their 
 ship outside of base using nanotechnology).
 
The goal of the game is to destroy the other fighters, gaining 
 points when players kill other players. The fighter will always resurrect 
 at the base.
 
Orbiting asteroids and the planet will be obstacles for 
 the ships. Gravity in the asteroid fields are insignificant, but if a 
 fighter gets close to the planet it will need to be careful as not to 
 enter the atmosphere and burn up. Asteroids are unfortunately too big 
 and strong to be destroyed by the fighters (otherwise a multiplayer game 
 would run out of asteroids really fast).
 
Screenshots
 
Please visit the screenshot page.
 
System 
 Requirements
 
Itana will not require much computing power compared to 
 today's standards. It does try to use hardware acceleration where possible, 
 although most systems are capable of reaching 100fps without use of acceleration.
 
Reccomended CPU 200mhz or higher.
 Video card capable of 16 bit (hicolor) mode in 800x600 resolution.
 
Windows 95/98/ME/NT/2k or Linux is required --
 The Windows version requires DirectX to run, which comes with Win 98/ME/2k 
 already installed.
 
The Linux version can use fbcon, X windows, DGA1/2, svgalib.
 
Network play will require a 28k modem or higher. Note 
 that Itana is multiplayer only. Bots may be added in the future but will 
 not be immediately supported.
 
Current Progress
 
All 4 of the race's ships and special abilities are in 
 the game. The races have not been gameplay balanced yet and still need 
 some major stat tweaking. If you can help test, or have comments, please 
 let me know.
 
The game works over the internet, but only well for those 
 with a ISDN connection or better at the moment.
 
All of the core features of the game besides this are 
 in the game and working well (radar, scoring system, physics/damage engine 
 etc)!
 
I need testers to make sure the network code is working 
 well since I haven't been able to test this widely yet.
 
Future Releases
 
Next up is optimizing the network code. This will probably 
 require a rewrite -- not surprising since this was my first try. Now with 
 the knowledge I have learned I will design the network system properly. 
 I will be working on the rewrite as a stand-alone library for others to 
 use.
 
But let me make this clear -- I am not creating another 
 vaporware like PV2143 or JetFight. This project WILL be finished and it 
 WILL be worked on more or less exclusively until completion.
 
Download
 
This new version includes a lot more features... Some 
 include: Customizable key controls, options menu, improved particle effects 
 and explosions, all four races, ships, and special abilities playable, 
 lessened graphics requirement to 800x600x16, and all new graphics for 
 ships, bases and weapons (thanks Vivienne!).
 
Installation Instructions / Manual
 
Pick your Operating System to download binaries:
 
Windows (1021k)
 
Linux (1051k)
 
Other UNIX, DOS -- (untested)
 Since my dependancies are cross-compatable the game should run under 
 these OS's. Download the source code.
 
Source Code
 
What is interesting here? Some highlights of the source 
 code:
 
The snowball algorithm for blending dirty rectanges together 
 to reduce flicker when clearing the screen. You can read about it here.
 A Video class to abstract the game from Allegro drawing (mostly) and to 
 handle the dirty rectangles outside of game logic.
 A Sound class doing basically the same thing as the Video class, but obviously 
 for sounds ;).
 A network engine using classes as packets -- might be removable.
 Some easily removable classes encapsulating libnet's drivers
 Easily removable porting code when you don't need everything Allegro offers 
 (ItanaPort.cpp)
 Might be able to copy some code from the GUIs to make your own.
 
Check this document for a simple 
 cursory glance over the class hierarchy in Itana (does not include the 
 networking component).
 
Download source code in Windows format, with MSVC projects:
 Download (115k)
 
Download source code in UNIX format for client, makefile 
 + configure script:
 Download (222k)
 
Download source code in UNIX format for server, makefile 
 + configure script:
 Download (218k)
 
Dependancies
 
All dependances are portable to DOS, Windows, and UNIX, 
 therefore my game will run in these environments. Allegro works also under 
 BeOS and Mac (in developement) and only libnet should give you problems 
 in those environments -- but I've not tried it out, though ;).
 
jrnd2 library
 libjpeg
 libnet
 allegro WIP 3.9.36+
 bgui2
 LinkQueue.h (2k, DOS format)
 
 
 
 
