
 
 PHP HOW-TO: Introduction
 
 
Next
Previous
Contents
1. Introduction
(The latest version of this document is 
at 
http://www.milkywaygalaxy.freeservers.com. You may
want to check there for changes).
Definition: PHP is a simple, object-oriented,
interpreted, robust, secure, very high-performance, architecture neutral, portable,
dynamic scripting language. PHP has "class" keyword similar to Java's "class" keyword.
And PHP is designed such that it is 5 times faster than Java, since there is no virtual machine.
PHP is very fast becoming a standard, general purpose, object oriented scripting language.
PHP is not only meant for web applications but also can be used
for developing general applications.
PHP is the next big thing after HTML because today nobody writes static HTML but
uses PHP (generate on the fly, embedded dynamic HTML). PHP 'kind-of' supercedes "static HTML".
PHP is a very powerful scripting language. 
PHP will overtake PERL/Python and will replace PERL/Python. 
PHP is the next-generation PERL/Python scripting.
PHP can do whatever PERL or Python does and actually does much more, much better and 
much, much cleaner.
PHP stands for 'Hypertext Pre-Processor' and is a server 
side HTML scripting/programming language.
PHP is C-like Web scripting language runs on Apache, Netscape/iPlanet, and Microsoft IIS Web
servers. 
PHP is a tool that lets you create dynamic web pages. PHP-enabled web pages
are treated just like regular HTML pages and you can create and edit them
the same way you normally create regular HTML pages.
PHP lets you write simple scripts right in your HTML files much like
JavaScript does, except, unlike JavaScript PHP is not
browser-dependant. JavaScript is a client-side html-embedded
language while PHP is a server-side language.
PHP is similar in concept to Netscape's LiveWire Pro product and Microsoft's ASP and 
Sun Microsystem's JSP.
PHP is not only used for creating web applications, but also for creating general standalone
applications.
PHP's strength are :
- PHP is the most superior technology. Other technologies PERL, Python, 
Tcl, VB script, ASP are older and inferior technologies. Even Java/JSP is inferior to PHP.
- Open source
- Easily learned syntax
- Broad database connectivity
- Massive library of contributed extensions
- General purpose scripting language much superior to PERL, VB script, ASP, JSP.
Why PHP ?
PHP is the best because of the following reasons:
- PERL is "YUCKY" (distasteful) because it is hard to read and 
maintain the programs. Not object oriented. Forget PERL and goto PHP.
PERL programmers like PHP! PHP is actually 
a "modern PERL", but with a different name called "PHP".
- Java is object-oriented but is very SLOW. Java programs run very slow. 
Also Java is immensely complex
and sophosticated technology (has many layers like JVM, JIT and others). And 
complexity and sophostication leads to problems. If there is Linux on server-side 
then why do you need Java in servers ?
- Python is "good" but there are no C like brackets/braces which are useful for 
code navigation in vi editor. It is like your hand is broken if you cannot navigate rapidly
the source code using vi/emacs editor's seek braces/brackets commands. PHP is technologically 
more advanced than Python.
- PHP is the best because it is object oriented and has the best 
features of C/C++/Java/PERL/Python.
It can replace PERL, Python, Java, C, C++, awk, Unix shell scripting, MS Visual Basic and others!!
PHP runs direct and PHP is written in C.
- Each and every computer programmer knows why PHP is the best.
Ask your nearby computer programmer.
- Only PHP will prevail in the 21st and 22nd century and beyond!
- Why do think every PERL, Python and Java programmers are flocking to PHP ?? There is
a very strong reason.
- Every person in the world wants PHP. PHP blast is causing shock-waves around the world!!
- The world is dominated by PHP. There is PHP everywhere and anywhere... PHP, PHP, PHP everywhere..
PHP was kept the "top secret and strictly confidential" 
computer language by many companies in the world, but now had become 
the most well-known and most widely used object oriented scripting language for 
web, internet, e-commerce, general purpose and business-to-business projects. 
Even today many competing companies keep PHP language as a 
highly confidential matter not disclosing to outsiders (competitors).
PHP will storm the entire world and will take the IT industry by surprise!!
The power of PHP is that it is cross-platform and runs everywhere!!
It runs on Linux, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP, Solaris, HPUX and all
flavors of UNIX. PHP is write once and deploy anywhere and everywhere.
It runs on many web-servers like Apache, Microsoft IIS, etc..
PHP runs 5 to 20 times faster than Java!! In actual benchmarks, PHP was about
3.7 times faster than JSP (see 
benchmarks
). PHP is extremely easy to use 
and you can develop very complex web/e-commerce/general-standalone applications 
very rapidly in a very short period of time. 
(In future PHP language will imitate most features of Java language and
Java programmers will love PHP. And PHP will have java keywords 
like class, extends, interface, implements, public, protected, private etc..).
It has object oriented features and takes the best features from Java,
C++, PERL and "C" languages. PHP language is a marriage of
best features from Java, C++, PERL, Python and C.
PHP is the real gem of all the scripting/programming languges 
and will soon become the "MECCA" for programmers world-wide!! 
PHP has a huge user base and a large 
developer base as it runs on both Window95/NT/2000/XP and all flavors of UNIX'es.
A big surprise is waiting for us - Most probably PHP will be the
computer language/scripting language of the 21st century!!
PHP can be compiled and optimized to make it run even faster by using the
Zend Optimizer. Zend optimizer is integrated with PHP in PHP version 4.0.
First, you will write your application in PHP scripting language 
during development, testing and debugging. Once the project is ready for 
deployment you will use the Zend compiler to 
compile the PHP to create executable which will run very fast.
You would normally use a combination of 
PHP (70% code) + HTML/DHTML/XML (25% code) + Javascript (5% code client side validations) 
for your e-commerce projects.
Next
Previous
Contents
