
 
Project V2143: The Price of Justice
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
Project V2143: 
 The Price of Justice 
 
Credits
 
Jason Winnebeck 
 (contact)
 Lead Designer/Programming/Maps/Doodad 
 Art
 
Jason Asato 
 (webpage)
 Full Screen Art/Terrain
 
Stephen Iglesias
 Unit Art
 
Lonnie Taylor 
 (webpage) (email)
 Titlescreen Music Theme
 
Todd Wolfe
 Lead Plot
 
Alpha Testers
 Dror "I_D_F" 
 from Israel
 
So 
 what's to see 'round these parts?
 Click on a section or scroll down 
 to browse!
 
Back to Main 
 Page
 
Review PV2143 on madmonkey.net!
 
About/Features
 Story
 Latest News
 What's Next
 Known Bugs
 Screen Shots
 Download
 Source Code and Fun Facts
 
About/Features
 
Features:
 2D scrolling game, with layered maps (tanks 
 can hide under trees, etc.)
 640x480x256 game resolution
 Mouse control for turret, keyboard for tank
 Upgrades(multiplayer only) and powerups for tank in game
 Terrain considerations--tanks move slower in mud/beach/grass, faster on 
 roads
 Map Editor--GUI interface in 1024x760 res
 Wonderful sound effects
 Lots and lots and lots of tanks parts when tanks explode
 Digital Music tracks
 Lots of transparent smoke, explosions, and more!
 
Return to Table of Contents
 
Story
 
Just after the turn of the 21st century, with prison overpopulation 
 at an all time high, and the United States already having an unprecedented 
 reputation crisis as the only Global Power left who still employed capital 
 punishment, the President was faced with an odd problem. He was an odd 
 man, and he found a way to use the United State's greatest advantage as 
 a solution. Space, the former frontier, man had long since tamed this 
 desolate wasteland, established many sister colonies on nearby worlds. 
 One such world, was to serve as the prison planet, a planet used to house 
 the nation's exiles, the planet chosen was the nearby planet of Venus, 
 ironically once thought of as the most beautiful of the Gods, and now 
 merely a wasteland for living trash.
 
Thankfully, Venus had already begun advanced stages of 
 terraforming, and thus could easily be made into the prison planet. The 
 United States sent special electronic dampeners, which made long range 
 communication for those on the planet impossible, and created automated 
 guns around the planet so any attempts to flee would certainly fail. As 
 an extra safety precaution, the Marines were stationed on an orbital space 
 platform nearby so they could go in and bomb any problem areas.
 
As you have probably already guessed, this is more than 
 a history lesson, recently a Doctor Lurmi was sent to the planet, and 
 he has apparently used his knowledge of electronic dampening and mechanics 
 to somehow capture the satellites. The Marine station was blown away by 
 the autocannons and the criminals now have complete control of Venus. 
 You have been selected to take it back, for this threat to National Security 
 cannot stand, using our cloaking technology, we will send in squad after 
 squad of tanks commanders, such as yourself, to decimate the enemy. Be 
 warned, they somehow hid whatever they used to capture our defenses, they 
 might be hiding more, be prepared for anything! Good luck, Venus awaits, 
 now you enter, Project V2143: The price of justice.
 
Return to Table of Contents
 
Latest News
 
The readme always has the latest info.
 
1/12 -- Version 16 is now out for Windows and DOS. Check 
 the bugs, because they are the most significant info for this new update.
 
10/6 -- Version 15 is now out! Read the readme for changes
 9/30 -- Updated the readme and stats on the newly arriving 
 build 15!
 9/24 -- Added a mirror download, which is all one part 
 now.
 8/3 -- Changed distribution format. Notes about this 
 are in the download section.
 7/29 -- Moved the screenshots off this page for a faster 
 loading time, and I added three shots and fixed up the titlescreen shot.
 7/25 -- Sorta forgot to add in the old save with this 
 version so you can play both maps!
 7/24 -- FINALLY! The fourteenth build 
 of PV2143 is out! I spent a huge amount of time the last few days rushing 
 to get everything reasonable in because I did not want to release a game 
 with any significant bugs (excluding gameplay/AI weaknesses)! This version 
 is very much changed, with mission objective windows, redesigned and graphical 
 GUI, suspenseful title music track, complements of Lonnie Taylor, a completely 
 new map and more features and bugfixes listed in the readme file!
 7/3 -- Build 13(sorta) is out. 
 This consists of a patch to the data file only. There actually is a build 
 13 EXE file, but the changes are only very minor asethetic changes and 
 a bugfix in the screenshot taker, certainly not worth an additional 300k 
 download, so I didn't release it.
 
Look at old project 
 news
 
Return to Table of Contents
 
What's Next
 
Redimentary multiplayer via TCP/IP comming 
 soon!
 
PEOPLE! When I get the graphics.
 
A cool tank engine sound when I can find 
 it!
 
Known Bugs
 
WINDOWS
 
The music doesn't work, because of unfinished 
 functions in Allegro (the library I use for input/output). I took it out 
 because it just sounds like a screeching mess if I had left it in
 
The GUI icons are miscolored in Windows. 
 I don't know why, and I suspect Allegro again. These should be fixed when 
 the people working on Allegro finish porting it to Windows.
 
DOS
 
If you are having problems with sound in 
 the DOS version, specifcally when using the SB Live! card, check out Getting the Sound to Work (can also help you 
 in troubleshooting other cards but is geared for the Live!)
 
GENERAL
 
Of course, being an alpha version, the 
 game is certainly not gameplay balanced, so don't expect it to be fair. 
 The focus right now is on getting the elements to work. Later on the stats 
 and specific workings of the tanks/weapons/etc will change.
 
I'm having problems using keys from the 
 keypad to control while the numlock is on. So please make sure your numlock 
 is OFF if you switch to any of those keys (for some reason, recently this 
 hasn't been a problem on some systems.)
 
Return to Table of Contents
 
Screenshots
 
The screenshots have been moved to a new 
 page since I added many more, and wished to save some download time.
 
Download
 
Disclaimer
 
I am not responsible for any damage the 
 program does or might do to your system. Although nothing bad should result, 
 but once in a blue moon it might. Keep in mind that the game is still 
 in alpha stage and therefore has not been tested widely and could crash 
 on your system. Check the updates in the "Known Bugs" section 
 just to be safe.
 
System Requirements
 
DOS
 
Pentium or VERY fast 486(133+ most likely 
 needed)
 VESA compatable video (VESA 3 or AF recommended)
 TWO button mouse
 Sound Blaster & compatables, Esoniq Soundscape, ESS Audiodrive
 Wavetable MIDI highly recommended
 
WINDOWS
 
Pentium or VERY fast 486
 DirectX compatable video and sound, uses DirectX7 or 6.1 (6.1 is untested)
 TWO button mouse
 
Files
 
BASE INSTALL
 
readme.txt -- Info on the game
 Tank.dat -- datafile
 Tank32.dat -- Titlescreen graphics
 Maps.dat -- levels
 Music directory -- digital music
 Tank.cfg -- config file (created by tank.exe)
 
DOS INSTALL
 Tank.exe -- executable
 CWSDPMI.EXE -- if you don't have Windows
 
WINDOWS INSTALL
 WinTank.exe -- executable
 alleg3930.dll -- Allegro DLL library
 
 
Project V2143 Download
 
If you are having problems with 
 sound in DOS, specifcally when using the SB Live! card, check out Getting the Sound to Work (can also help you in troubleshooting other cards but is geared 
 for the Live!)
 
Readme -- Latest Version Notes and Installation Instructions
 
 
 Version .016a download
 Last updated 1/12/00. 
 
 
 
 
Base Data Files(Download 
 First!) -- Used Under DOS or Windows
 (you may install both Windows and 
 DOS EXEs if preferred)
 
 
 
 Rochester, NY Mirror 
 
 
 Full Download
 Download Base Files 
 (768k) 
 
Upgrade to .016a from .015a
 Download Upgrade 
 (489k)
 
 
 
 
 
 Then Pick:
 Windows DirectX Install
 
 
 
 Rochester, NY Mirror 
 
 
 Full Download
 Download Windows EXEs 
 (341k) 
 
 
 
 And/Or:
 DOS Install 
 
 
 Rochester, NY Mirror 
 
 
 Full Download
 Download DOS EXEs (402k) 
 
 
 
Return to Table of Contents
 
Source Code and Fun Facts
 
The full source to build 16 is available 
 here (86k) or at the mirror.
 
To successfully compile the source code, 
 you will need DJGPP with Allegro library 3.x, with the Allegro addons 
 JGMOD, BGUI, and libjpeg. You will also need my LinkList library 
 and random numbers library.
 
Note that the lines of code only includes 
 the game's core code and not of the libraries listed above.
 
Fun Facts about the Project V2143 
 source code build 15:
 
Number of lines in all files including 
 whitespace: 8953.
 That's 359 screens or 180 pages of code!
 Number of bytes in all source code files: 267676.
 Number of source and header files: 59.
 Number of classes (objects) in the code: 67.
 
Fun Facts about the Project V2143 
 source code build 14:
 
Number of lines in all files including 
 whitespace: 8271.
 Number of bytes in all source code files: 248319.
 Number of classes (objects) in the code: 65.
 Number of items in tank.dat file (not including title screen and music!): 
 326.
 
Fun Facts about the Project V2143 
 source code build 13:
 
Number of lines in all files including 
 whitespace: 7898.
 Number of bytes in all source code files: 232315.
 Number of classes (objects) in the code: 65.
 
Return to Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
