
 
online C++ tutorial: How to Use This Tutorial
 
 
 
 Section 0: Preface 
Section 0.3: How to Use This Tutorial
This tutorial is broken up into Parts, Sections, and 
subsections. Each section starts with a subsection that introduces 
the concepts and topics covered in that section. This is 
the "What Is..." section and is always covered as subsection 1. 
If the user understands the terminology and basic concepts 
of a section, they can skip to subsection 2. 
 At the top of each page there are a few graphics. These
graphics allow quick movement through the tutorial.
At any time the user can jump to the table of contents,
the search page, the glossary, or the feedback page simply by
clicking on the desired word in the graphic. There are also 
arrows on either side of this graphic. The double arrows to the
left will jump one section back, the single arrow left will jump
one subsection back. The double arrows right jump ahead one
section, and the single arrow right jumps ahead one subsection.
There are a few conventions followed by
this tutorial. When presenting actual C++ code or pseudocode 
it will look like this:
this is actual code
When presenting pseudocode, keywords will be set in bold, 
and pieces that are generic ideas, like a boolean condition,
or an integer value, will be set in italics, as follows:
if( condition) then
 do_something
In the preceding example, "if" and "then" are set as keywords,
and "condition" is a generic idea: "condition" will be replaced
by a programmer with a real condition before this becomes
real C++ code.
 
The glossary page for this tutorial that contains 
definitions of important words or concepts. When these words
appear in the text, they are linked to their definition, so 
the user can simply click on them and jump to their definiton.
After viewing the definiton, the user should click on the "back"
button on their web browser to return to the spot in the text 
where they left off.
The Parts of the tutorial outline the major breaks in
the text. Part I introduces some concepts about programming 
languages and some background information on C++. It also
outlines the writing and execution of a very simple C++ program.
Part II dives into the basic syntax of the language. For 
first time programmers, it is very important to get a feel for
how the language works, and to understand all the syntax 
introduced before moving on to part III. Part III introduces
some of the most powerful features of the C++ programming 
language: objects and pointers. For programmers who have not 
done any object-oriented programming before, this is the time 
to open your mind. Object programming is a difficult concept,
especially to programmers who have spent most of their lives
writing procedural code.
 Part IV explains more advanced features of objects, such as 
Inheritance and Polymorphism, along with streams, operator/function
overloading, and exceptions. This part also contains a section 
that deals with setting up a project of multiple files, and using 
a makefile
 When using this tutorial, complete understanding should be
the goal. With a programming language like C++, it is important to 
throughly understand how the parts of the language work before
trying to use them. A good understanding of the language now, will
save a programmer many hours of stressful bug-hunting.
 Please feel free to comment on any or all of this tutorial.
The authors welcome any type of feedback. To do so, go to our
feedback page at any time.
 
 
 
