 
 
Yet Another Code Site - Rich Edit 2.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 Yet Another Code
	 Site
 
 
 Using
Rich Edit 2.0 With BCB
Rich Edit 2.0 is an updated version of the Rich Edit
 control. It includes additional features such as: 
 
- Support for more Rich Text Format (RTF) codes (RTF
1.5?). 
- Multi-level undo/redo. You can ask the control
what is about to be undone/redone and display it for the
user. 
- Auto-URL detection -- automatically underlines and
highlights in blue text URL links such as text beginning
with "http://', "ftp://", etc. Your
program can be notified when the user clicks/double-clicks
on the text and, with just a little code, start the user's
browser and link to the URL. 
- Additional visual character formatting using an
extended version of the CHARFORMAT structure (CHARFORMAT2)
that supports: User-defined character background
colors; strike-out character format; super- and subscripted
text; a second functional underline style (dotted); and the
ability to show revisions by different authors in different
colors. 
- Additional non-visual character formatting using
CHARFORMAT2 that supports a "link" format that
notifies the parent control of mouse movements over the
text. Although this is probably used to support the
Auto-URL detection mentioned above, you could use it to get
notification when the cursor moves over or is clicked on
your own special text. 
- Additional paragraph formatting using an extended
version of the PARAFORMAT structure (PARAFORMAT2) that
supports: Vertical spacing before and after a
paragraph; and single, 1 1/2, double, and user-defined line
spacing within a paragraph. 
- Presumably, bug fixes. I have no examples, but
one can always hope. 
Disclaimer: The above list is based primarily on
 the online documentation available at Microsoft's developer
 site (MSDN). I have tested only some of this
 functionality. Before getting all excited over some
 feature that you absolutely must have but dread to code up
 yourself, visit
 MSDN and make sure that the above is
 correct. On the other hand, some functionality seems
 to be supported that the documentation is incorrect, both
 on MSDN and in the header files. As an example, the
 dotted underline style is supported in my Win98 version of
 Rich Edit 2.0 despite all statements to the contrary. 
 The bottom line is: If you need the functionality and
 it is mentioned anywhere, try it -- but do not count on it
 until you have confirmed that it works. 
 
Rich Edit 2.0 Availability Information
Rich Edit 1.0 is implemented in riched32.dll. The
 newer version is implemented in riched20.dll. To see
 if you already have version 2.0, search your drive for
 riched20.dll. 
 
Unfortunately for those who do not already have it, I
 have been unable to determine where it comes from. I
 did find the following unhelpful comment on the Microsoft
 Developer site (MSDN): 
 "Windows 95: Windows
95 ships only RICHED32.DLL. However, RICHED20.DLL is
compatible with Windows 95 and may be present if an
application that uses rich edit 2.0 has been installed on
the system."
My best guess is that it comes with Internet Explorer
 4.0. My second guess is that it comes with the Common
 Controls 4.0 update (40comupd.exe) which is available free
 from Microsoft's site. If you have a better guess or,
 better yet, have solved the mystery, please, please let me
 know. 
 
Updated Rich Edit 2.0 Availability Information 
Kenneth R. de Camargo, Jr., reports definite origins on
 a "clean machine" of either Office 97 or the
 Win95 service pack. 
 
Gerard Patel reports that he "can confirm that you
 can get the thing [riched20.dll] for free by downloading
 the 4 mb Word Viewer 97. A little overkill
 maybe." 
 
I believe that it is included in Windows98. 
 
Sample Code Availability
Both BCB 1.0 & 3.0 use Rich Edit 1.0. An
 example of adapting the VCL TRichEdit class to use the Rich
 Edit 2.0 control is available in the Code Samples section
 of this site. Among other things, the sample
 demonstrates how to: 
 
- Implement multi-level undo/redo. 
- Simplify forward and reverse searches. 
- Identify RTF and binary files. 
- Track the current insert/overstrike state. 
- Recognize and execute URL links. 
- Implement new text formatting (character background
color, superscript, subscript, link, dotted underline,
etc.). 
- Allow setting of a single character-formatting
attribute, e.g., bold, without resetting other formatting
attributes. 
 
 
	 
Home |
	Top Of Page |
	Code |
	Papers |
	FAQs |
	Links |
	Search |
	Feedback
	 
 
 
	 
Page updated 
	
 
	 
 
 
Copyright © 1998-2001 Thin Air
 Enterprises and Robert Dunn. All rights reserved. 
 
