 
 
Yet Another Code Site - MEd - A Rich Edit 2.0 Sample
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 Yet Another Code
	 Site 
 
 
MEd 3.0 - A TaeRichEdit Component
Demonstration 
MEd started out as a simple replacement for
 WordPad. It turned into a monster.... 
 There were no complete RichEdit 2.0 components when I began
 the project and precious little information beyond
 Microsoft sample programs. Eventually, the code
 developed for MEd became the basis of the TaeRichEdit
 Component. And a while after that, the Component
 became the basis for a new version of MEd. 
 
I originally wrote MEd
 because I wanted WordPad to do a few more things, or do
 them differently &#150; things like: 
 
- Support multiple undo/redo and other Rich Edit 2.0+
features. 
- Open multiple documents using a tab control document
interface. 
- Recognize binary files and display them as hexadecimal
file dumps. 
- Be able to switch between Rich Text, Plain Text, and a
file dump view. 
- Remember more than four files in the "most
recently used" file list. 
- Support custom filters in the open dialog. 
- Preview and print documents with headers and footers,
borders, and codes for user names, dates, filenames, etc. 
- Support "page styles" that would make it
easier to select user-defined headers, footers, borders,
and so on. 
- Open up a new document when a file is dropped on the
application (instead of inserting the dropped file into the
current document). 
These were some of the features that I wanted, but many
 more were added along the way.... 
 
I am posting this unfinished work for those curious
 about what can be done with the bits and pieces of code
 from this site. Be warned that MEd is really,
 really unfinished. There are unimplemented menu
 items (although the related toolbar buttons may work),
 features that are only partially implemented, and the first
 time that you run it, it will complain that the
 configuration was lost (just ignore the warning).
 However, I am already finding it to be a very useful
 tool and thought that you might want to see the Rich Edit
 2.0 control in action. 
 
 MEd Screen Shot 
 
You may download the executable for this
 work-in-progress by clicking on the link below. Since
 this is an unfinished work, you are welcome to report bugs,
 but please do not expect fixes. In fact, you probably
 should not expect a reply, as I may be overwhelmed with bug
 reports and, hey, this is just an example of
 what can be done.
 
Before downloading MEd, please read the
 following notes: 
 
- MEd uses Rich Edit 2.0 (or 3.0 if installed). 
RICHED20.DLL must already be installed on your machine for
this program to operate. RICHED20.DLL is normally
installed in C:\Windows\System or C:\WinNT\System32, but
search your entire drive if you do not find it there. 
- The first time that you run MEd, it will complain that
the configuration information in the Registry is not
valid. This is because coding the program to properly
check for prior installation has been a very low
priority. You may safely ignore this warning. 
- There is no help file. However, the status line
shows a brief description of each menu item and button.
 Hopefully, most of the menus and buttons will operate
in a familiar way. 
- There is no pretty install program &#150; just extract
the program from the distribution file into a folder and
execute it. 
- Likewise, there is no pretty uninstall program. 
To uninstall the program simply delete it. You may
also delete all of the Registry entries which are located
under \\HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Thin Air Enterprises\MEd
if you wish to eliminate all traces of MEd. 
- You are not permitted to distribute this
program. This download is available only to satisfy
your curiosity, not for further sharing or use. 
Finally, and most importantly, you use this program
 at your own risk. Absolutely and without
 exception. Period. 
 
Download MEd30.zip
 (MEd executable only) 
 Last updated 04-29-2001, 560KB 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
Home |
	Top Of Page |
	Code |
	Papers |
	FAQs |
	Links |
	Search
	| Feedback
	 
 
 
	 
Page updated 
	
 
	 
 
 
Copyright © 1999-2001 Thin Air
 Enterprises and Robert Dunn. All rights reserved. 
 
