 
 
 
 C++ & MFC - Table of Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alt Text
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shop for Software
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CodeGuru Sites 
 
 
 Visual C++ / MFC / C++
 .NET (C# and more)
 Visual Basic
 Gamelan (Java)
 JARs (Java Applets)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 submission guidelines
 
 
 Interact 
 
 
 Discussion Boards
 Newsletters (subscribe)
 Guestbook
 Recommend Us!
 
 
 
 Of Interest 
 
 
 Books on .NET
 Book Reviews
 Newsletters (archived)
 
 About Us
 
 
 
 Article Sections 
 
 C++
 
 
 algorithms & formulas
 c++ & mfc
 date & time
 string
 
 
 
 COM-based Technologies
 
 
 atl & wtl
 com & activex
 com+
 shell programming
 
 
 
 Controls
 
 
 button control 
 combobox 
 edit control 
 imagelist control 
 listbox control 
 listview control 
 menu 
 other controls 
 property sheet 
 rich edit control 
 static control 
 status bar 
 toolbar 
 treeview control 
 
 
 
 Data
 
 
 
 database
 miscellaneous
 
 
 
 Frameworks
 
 
 
 ui & printing frameworks
 
 
 
 Graphics & Multimedia
 
 
 bitmaps & palettes
 directx
 gdi
 multimedia
 opengl
 
 
 
 Internet & Networking
 
 
 ie programming
 internet protocols
 isapi
 network protocols
 
 
	
 
 Miscellaneous
 
 
 miscellaneous
 samples
 
 
 
 
 Visual Studio
 
 
 
 debugging
 add-ins & macros
 editor tips
 
 
 
 Windows Programming
 
 
 ce
 clipboard
 dll
 file & folder
 help systems
 printing
 win32
 system
 
 
 
 Windows & Dialogs
 
 
 console
 dialog
 docking window
 doc/view
 splitter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Connection Pipe Classes
This article was contributed by 
Ion Tichy.
http://www.iont.20m.com
Environment: VC6, WindowsNT4, Windows2000
1. Purpose
Simple and fast communication between all types of MFC Applications on a single or multiple computers in Windows NT. 
2. Main features
- Data transmission from Clients to Server, their processing and results return, if needed.
- Data transmission from Server to Clients informing them about any event.
- Different schemes of buffer allocations.
- Automatic Server loading.
- Automatic Server termination without Clients, if needed.
- Utilities for registration, automatic loading, tracing and Wizard. 
3. Introduction
Several years ago I wrote classes by using Mailslots for communication between Clients and Server. According to the project requirements these classes had to worked in Windows 95. In spite of numerous problems and limitations of Mailslots these classes work properly in Windows 95 and Windows NT. 
The above-mentioned problems are the following: 
- 8-bytes limitation for Mailslots names in Windows 95 and 
- numerous data transmission across Mailslots between Computers, if they have several identical installed communiciation protocols. 
Microsoft considers this as "by design". In other words, it is not an error, but I don't agree.
In these classes Server has the receiving thread and Clients send data with identificator of Client (Computer name and Client name) to this thread. It increases summary data that Clients transmit across Mailslots and it is the disadvantage of this method.
I took a course of COMs and ATL. After that it was evident that there were very many undocumented things in that technology. ATL is a convenient tool, but I have discovered several limitations, e.g. it is impossible to make ATL-Server from the existing MFC application. 
DCOM implementation needs great efforts too. For example, I wrote my first program with DCOM in almost 2 weeks and had to ask Microsoft for numerous consultations. That's why in spite of my wish to use COM/DCOM in my new project I had to give up this idea.
The new project that I have begun to work at had high requirements for the speed of data processing. This factor had to be taken into account in the design of the new communication tool. Fortunately, unlike COM, there were no requirements to the design of the universal tool and this made the development easier. 
For the new project I have chosen the protocol Named Pipes working only in Windows NT. In literature this protocol is defined as following:
An inter-process communication mechanism that allows one process to communicate with another local or remote process. 
I have tried to implement the ideas that I used in my first project with Mailslots as well as the ideas of COM. In the next chapter you'll learn the Client-Server architecture, based on the Named Pipes protocol.
4. Client-Server Architecture
There are following variants of connections Client and Server. 
- Client and Server are on a single computer. 
- Client and Server are on multiple computers.
Click here for larger image
 
When Server is loaded, Client tries to get into connection with Server.
If Server is not loaded and Client and Server are on a single computer, Client gets information about Server from Registry of this computer(see Computer 4). 
If Server is not loaded and Client and Server are on multiple computers, Client gets information about Server from Registry of the remote Server computer across utility AgentCP (see Computers 1 and 2). This program searches Server information in Registry of Server Computer and loads it.
As seen from Figure 1, for successful functioning of the above-mentioned process it is necessary:
- To write information about Server in Registry of Server Computer. 
- To run utility AgentCP on the remote computer previously.
Thus the Server automatic loading is carried out. Process-Server may be terminated automatically, if Clients are not connected.
Here you may see WizardCP Application:
Click here for larger image
 
Downloads
Download Users Guide - 169 KB
Download Demo project - 200 KB
Download WizardCP - 40 KB
Download Test, generated by WizardCP - 119 KB
History
Date Posted: August 27, 2001
 
Comments:
- Nice article ! - hostalet (2002/06/14)
- network - k.ramesh (2001/09/17)
- Another useful protocol (not only working in WinNT)... - M. Knaup (2001/08/29)
- Good Job - Edison (2001/08/29)
- nice piece - eechu (2001/08/29)
- great! - frank (2001/08/27)
Add Comment
 
 
 
internet.commerce
 
Be a Commerce Partner
Tech Magazines-Free
FlashMX Tools/Bundles
Comparison Shopping
Computer Training
For Web Graphics
Promote Your Website
Find Annual Reports
Find a Consultant
Internet Jobs
Anti-Virus Software
 
 
EarthWeb is a service of INT Media Group, Incorporated.
Copyright 2002 INT Media Group, Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
Feedback, 
Advertising Info, 
Legal Notices, 
Licensing, 
Reprints, & 
Permissions, 
Privacy Policy.
