
The Author's Voice
 
 
 
 
 
 Interview
 
 
 
The Author's Voice
The C++ programming language--redefined
Bjarne Stroustrup, the father of
C++, talks to Amazon.com about the latest version of his authoritative
book, the upcoming ISO C++ standard, the quality of commercial tools,
the value of Java, and the future of C++ programming.
 
Tom Mace, Amazon.com: Why are you updating The C++
Programming Language? What new things will readers find when they
open the book?
Bjarne Stroustrup: Probably most readers will note the extensive
discussion of the standard library. To the best of my knowledge, no
C++ textbook has treated the standard library in this breadth and
depth before. Also, a reader will note the emphasis on technique and
design. All the key language features are described, and the book is
organized so that language features are introduced in a logical
order. However, each feature is presented in the context of a sensible
use. The aim is to help the reader escape the common trap of focusing
on language-technical details to the detriment of good programming.
Many have expressed surprise at how thorough a rewrite this third
edition is. Basically, it is about 80% new material compared to the
second edition and the organization has been extensively reworked to
reflect the many things we have learned about the use of C++ over the
last six years or so. This book reflects a major step in the evolution
of C++ and its use.
Amazon.com: What are the most important changes to the language since the last
edition was published?
Stroustrup: Actually, the most important
change is not a language change; it is the addition of the standard
library. Surprisingly, my second edition is still adequate with most
C++ implementations. Only recently have the implementations caught up
with the specification in my second edition and gone beyond
that. However, there are new refinements of the template and exception
mechanisms. Also, run-time type identification (RTTI) and namespaces
will be new to most people. Standard C++ also offers many minor
improvements such as declarations in conditions and a Boolean
type. Naturally, The C++ Programming Language covers them
all.
However, the key is the techniques that the language features
exist to support. Most changes to the text and to the organization
were done to reflect new and better ways of using the language and to
take advantage of the standard library.
The standard library made
it possible for me to make the language more accessible to new C++
programmers. By relying on library types--such as vector, list, and
map--I can postpone the trickier points of C-style pointer and array
manipulation until it is assumed that the reader is familiar with the
basics--or even with an appendix.
This doesn't mean that The C++
Programming Language has been watered down. It was my aim to write
a book that offers much to essentially every serious C++ programmer. I
suspect I have come close to that ideal. Some of the most experienced
and accomplished C++ programmers helped me by reviewing drafts (you
can find their names in the acknowledgement section) and every one of
those learned something significant from their effort.
Amazon.com: Have you changed the book's
organization?
Stroustrup: People who know my first and second editions will note that the
reference manual has been replaced by the library description. Given
that an international standard for C++ is imminent, I did not think it
appropriate for me to provide a manual that paraphrased the standard.
To compensate, the tutorial text is a bit more detailed in places and
a couple of appendices provide necessary reference materials (such as
the complete C++ grammar).
The book is organized like this:
Introduction: Chapters 1 through 3 give an overview of the C++
language, the key programming styles it supports, and the C++ standard
library. Part I: Chapters 4 through 9 provide a tutorial introduction
to C++'s built-in types and the basic facilities for constructing
programs out of them. Part II: Chapters 10 through 15 are a tutorial
introduction to object-oriented and generic programming using
C++. Part III: Chapters 16 through 22 present the C++ standard
library. Part IV: Chapters 23 through 25 discuss design and software
development issues. Appendices: Appendices A through C provide
language-technical details.
As with my first and second editions, I
aim to provide something that will be valuable as both a tutorial for
serious programmers and a reference for many years to come.
Amazon.com: Will the famous exercises be
changed? Should we expect to see anything along the lines of Tony
Hansen's The C++ Answer Book for the new edition?
Stroustrup: There are many new exercises, but
most of the old favorites remain. It is interesting that Tony Hansen's
solutions to the exercises in the first edition are mostly still
valid, but in many cases the newer language features and the library
make improved solutions feasible.
Addison-Wesley plans to make a set of good solutions available, but
the details of how and when have not yet been made final.
Amazon.com: The deliberations of
standards bodies are notoriously slow, despite the best intentions of
everyone involved. How is the ANSI/ISO C++ standardization process
going? Are important language features still outstanding or is it just
a question of hammering out details?
Stroustrup: Formal standardization is slow
and frustrating. It doesn't help that the standards bodies keep
"improving" the rules for how a standard is made and what a
standard is. However, the only alternative to formal standardization
is the capricious and self-serving control by a commercial company.
We can always discuss what constitutes a "major" feature,
but I think "a question of hammering out details" is close
to the truth. No new language or standard library facilities will be
introduced in this standard and none currently present will be
removed. We are in the final draft stage where the focus is on
precise specification of the current feature set. The time for
significant improvements (and significant damage) is done. This is one
of the major reasons I completed my third edition now. It describes
the language we will live with (happily, I hope) for the next five to
ten years.
Amazon.com: When do you
hope to see the adoption of an ISO standard for C++?
Stroustrup: I hope to get the final draft
sent to international vote in November. After that it takes
significant effort to change even the smallest typo, but formally
there won't be a standard for some time after that while the ISO and
the national standards bodies cross the t's and dot the i's.
Amazon.com: Is C a viable language for
the future? Would you recommend it for certain tasks?
Stroustrup: C is and will remain a
viable language. However, I suspect you really mean to ask if there is
something for which C is better than C++. In my opinion, the only
reason to use C is if you happen to be restricted to an environment
for which there is no C++ compiler or where the tool set doesn't
accept C++.
As a language, C++ equals or exceeds C in every area and there are no
significant problems in making C++ implementations equal or exceed C
in performance of the generated code. Because C++ is a more expressive
language, longer compile times are possible--especially if you use
powerful features such as templates. Programmers should be careful to
understand the run-time implications of the C++ features they rely
on. However, given a good basic understanding of C++, this is not
hard. Naturally The C++ Programming Language can help
here, but a programmer might also consider looking at The
Design and Evolution of C++ to see how the principles of the
C++ language affect the basic efficiencies of language features and
techniques.
Amazon.com: Were you surprised when C++
was used to encapsulate commercial APIs such as Windows?
Stroustrup: I was surprised by
Windows. However, I was not surprised by the use of C++ for
encapsulation. After all, that is one of the things C++ was designed
to do. Naturally, my third edition describes techniques for
encapsulation and interface design. I suspect that if the designers of
the Windows APIs had had my third edition and the language that this
book describes, those APIs would have been much nicer for programmers.
It might be worth noting that The C++ Programming Language
describes "pure C++" as opposed to a specific API. In
principle, the examples in the book should run everywhere and the
techniques described should be applicable using any C++
implementation.
Amazon.com: How do you feel about the
quality of commercial C++ tools?
Stroustrup: They still have a long
way to go. In particular, I think that the PC suppliers have focused
on flashy graphical features at the expense of solid work on the key
language mechanisms. This is especially sad because a few "man
years" of effort on the basics (such as generating good code for
concrete types, effective inlining, good template expansion, better
error detection, and better error messages) would be of immediate and
significant benefit to hundreds of thousands of programmers.
My hope is that the new degree of stability that the standard will
bring will encourage the compiler suppliers to make the relatively
small investment in quality that is needed in the basic compiler
technology.
Amazon.com: What do you think of Java as
a language and virtual machines as a platform for software execution?
Stroustrup: Incredibly
over-hyped. I'm unhappy about the degree of intellectual dishonesty
surrounding its advertising. It is probably a nice platform for
running small self-contained systems, but it is being proclaimed as
the solution to every problem and for every programmer. It is not. No
language and no system is. Even the platform independence issue is not
as clearcut as it seems. As the Java libraries are extended to deal
with more application areas, these libraries themselves become a
platform. As vendors add new facilities, portability to machines using
facilities from competing vendors' portability becomes compromised.
People often claim that Java is similar to C++. The similarity is only
skin deep. The syntax is similar, but the computational model, the
basic efficiencies and degrees of expressiveness, and many key
programming techniques differ. When you consider the libraries need to
work effectively, the two languages appear more different still. Java
is not a good match for the C++ design criteria. Java doesn't even
come close and I don't think it could come close given its own very
different design criteria. Similarly, C++ doesn't meet Java's design
criteria.
I'm sure that there is a niche for Java, just as there is for other
languages. I just find the drum beat of advertising annoying. In
particular I find Sun's ads that say "100% pure. No non-Java
codes" offensive and a bit pathetic. Java cannot provide both
platform independence and a major source of profits for its
supplier(s).
Amazon.com: What do you see in the near
and long-term future for C++?
Stroustrup: In the near future, I
see continual steady growth from a large base of C++ use. In the
longer term, I think the best have yet to come. The standard will most
likely lead to significant improvements in quality of implementations
and an explosion in tools and libraries. I'm already seeing some of
that and find C++ programming more enjoyable than ever.
 
 
Copyright
and disclaimer © 1996-1998 Amazon.com, Inc.
