
 
 
 
 cpp.8m.com - legal
 
 
 
	
	
	 
	 	
	 
	 
 
	 
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notices
Legal notices 
The web site and software made available
for download from it is protected by copyright laws. Further reproduction
or redistribution of any part of this web site is expressly prohibited. 
Software, documents, files and information contained within this site is
disclaimed of any express or implied warranty or condition of merchantability
or fitness for any particular purpose. 
Cydexia ISG or Undernet #C++ should
not be held liable for any damages including but not limited to loss of
information or profit caused by use of this site or information and software
within this site. 
Privacy statement 
This web site may contain links to
other entities or organizations. ISG is not responsible for the privacy
practices or the content of any such web sites. No visitor information
is shared with or supplied to other entities without individual consent
from the visitor. Financial information collected by this web site is used
only for the purpose this information was taken from the visitor. This
web site does not employ any means to track its visitors individually.
An ISG web site may provides forums, message boards, and newsgroups for
its members. Any information that is disclosed while using these services
is considered public information and no privacy assertion is made regarding
such information. ISG takes security measures to protect loss, misuse and
alteration of visitor information, however, ISG makes no guarantee that
such information will remain protected in attacks, misconduct or other
means by which a third party attempts to obtain this information. ISG provides
an opportunity to opt out of receiving future communications from ISG and/or
its partners at the point where such information is sent to visitors. Any
questions or concerns regarding privacy practices of ISG should be addressed
to webmaster@cpp.8m.com. 
Trademarks 
Borland® C++, C++Builder, C++Builder/400,
VisiBroker, MIDAS are trademarks or registered trademarks of INPRISE Corporation.
AS/400 is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation. OMG, CORBA, IIOP,
and ORB are trademarks or registered trademarks of Object Management Group,
Inc. Netscape, Netscape Navigator are registered trademarks of Netscape
Communications Corporation. Windows and Windows NT are either trademarks
or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. All other brand and
product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective
holders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
