
Commission Junction Affiliate Programs Make Money - Your internet advertising and marketing can create a successful e-commerce business.
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 | Client Login
	 | Apply to Join
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
 
	 
	
 
 
 Commission Junction provides publishers the opportunity to earn more revenue 
 from their audience on a pay-for-performance basis. Publishers can partner 
 with hundreds of advertisers and access millions of ads from a single 
 Web-based interface. Commission Junction is the trusted third party that 
 tracks and reports on every ad in the network, sends a monthly payment 
 to publishers, and provides a suite of online tools to help publishers 
 optimize their performance.
 
How it Works
 
An advertiser joins the Commission Junction network and places ads, offers, 
 and links in the network, making them available for placement by a publisher. 
 Publishers apply to join the advertiser's program, and upon acceptance, 
 select and place the advertiser's offers on their Web site. 
 
These offers and links are served and tracked by Commission Junction. 
 When a visitor to a publisher's Web site makes an actual purchase online 
 or fills out a form, that transaction is tracked and recorded by Commission 
 Junction. Commission Junction handles all of the collection and processing 
 required to ensure fair and timely commission payment for the publisher, 
 and all of the administration and verification necessary to ensure qualified 
 sales and leads for the advertiser.
 
The Benefits
 
 
- Account monitored by an independent third-party 
 
- Single interface to manage multiple advertisers 
 
- Single id and password to access all accounts 
 
- One consolidated monthly payment via direct deposit
 
- Payment available in 16 currencies 
 
- Real-time tracking and reporting 
 
- Hundreds of quality 
 advertisers
 
- Multiple link types and offers 
 
- Online productivity tools 
 
- Free service and support 
 
- Online knowledge base 
 
- Free sign-up 
 
 
Apply to Join 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 Copyright 
 © 2002, Commission Junction Inc. All rights reserved. 1-805-560-0777 
 Contact Us | Terms 
 of Use | Privacy Policy | FAQ 
	
