
 
The Archive
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
The Archive
 
 This area has files 
 and source code for programs I make. If you have any questions about 
 programming in , Pascal(DOS), or C/C++(DOS or Windows), feel free to contact me.
 
Keep in mind that most programs 
 here require CWSDPMI to run in pure DOS mode. Windows does not require 
 it, however. You can download it from this 
 link to ftp.Simtel.net or the DJGPP page.
 
All items here have been tested with DJGPP. 
 Most, if not all should work on any ANSI standard compiler (if it doesn't 
 use Allegro.) Programs saying "Alleg req" need DJGPP and Allegro 
 to COMPILE, but not to run the EXE.
 
Back to main page
 
Contents
 
Libraries
 
Random numbers library 
 -- Portable RNG. v2.1. 3/8/00. Finished.
 *LinkList Library -- templates, linklists for large data. 3/8/00. v2.1 FINAL. Complete.
 Includes the *LinkList program -- example program for Linklist.h. 4/1/99. 
 v1.3. Complete.
 TextGUI -- CWindow and CTextBox. 8/16/99. Example Program.
 QuickGUI -- addon to BGUI. 11/8/99. v1. Working.
 JPEG for Allegro -- by Eric Vannier. Linux/Dos/Windows. 2/3/98. v1.03.
 BGui -- 1.0 by Dan Huizenga, 2.0 by Jason Winnebeck. 10/18/00. v2.0.2. Complete
 
Networking
 
Chat Server/Client Programs 
 -- Chat direct IP to IP! 7/19/99. Scrapped.
 MUUDPIC -- 2nd generation to above program. 8/16/99. Preview Release.
 
Profiling
 
fixtest.cpp -- Allegro fixed var vs float vs double speed test, important results! 
 3/25/00. Finished.
 Array Test -- Comparision of arr[c] vs *(ptr++).
 LinkList Test -- Comparision of arr[100000] vs LinkList. Amazing results!
 Fixed Trig Test 
 -- Comparasion of fixed trigs and fix trig to float trig. 3/13/99.
 
Screensavers/Misc
 
Stars Screensaver 
 -- 3d points, classes. 173k, Alleg. v1. 3/27/98. Finished.
 Snow Screensaver -- For the season. 120k, Alleg. v1. 1/11/99. Finished.
 Shipdriv -- classes, Allegro, grfx, coord systems. Alleg. 200k. v1. 4/18/98. 
 Finished.
 
Back to main 
 page
 
 
Libraries
 
jrnd.zip -- header file required to compile 
 most of my programs. v2.1. Last updated: 3/8/00
 
It's been over a year since I've last updated this library, 
 and now with the new portable Allegro I have been finding it more and 
 more difficult to use the ANSI random functions as they yield different 
 results and in different ranges. So now jrnd has gotten a lot better in 
 version 2.1. The most notable change in the system is that it comes with 
 its own public domain RNG, so it will yield identical results on any ANSI 
 compiler on any platform. Also jrnd is now C compatable. If you are running 
 C++ you can take advantage of the overloaded functions but now C users 
 can still use it through alternately named calls (since there are no overloaded 
 funcs in C). The last change is that jrnd.h and jrnd2.h have been merged 
 together, so you can get random numbers in 32-bit integer, floating point, 
 or fixed point formats all from the same include.
 
Version 2.1 fixes major bugs in version 2.0 when 
 using with Allegro and other includes and code, and now has .cpp version 
 of rndalgor to add to your project if you prefer not to use jrndglob.h.
 
Back to top
 
Linklist.zip -- Templated library for use with 
 large data. v2.1 Updated: 3/8/00
 
This class primarily uses pointers, but 
 it also has alternate functions for returning by reference. Has comments 
 for nearly EVERY LINE, good for learning a lot of c++. Overloaded functions, 
 operators, reference, returning by reference, templates, pointers, memory 
 allocations, inline optimized functions.
 
Latest Changes:
 Added Save and Load functionality to save or load your place 
 in the list.
 
I want to caution you that I made 
 this lib two years ago, and although it does work perfectly and very fast, 
 it is not very robust -- If you do something wrong then the list will 
 not pick it up, like when using Save or Load, or the _* functions. I recommend 
 using the std::list C++ class now if you can.
 
Back to top
 
QuickGUI -- Easy to create dialogs. v1. Updated: 
 11/8/99
 
This very small library works over the 
 BGUI and Allegro libraries to help with creating a more interactive GUI 
 program in Allegro. This was made for the MUUDPIC GUI chat interface, 
 but is releasable seperately. Includes .a file compiled on 11/8/99 
 with latest DJGPP, BGUI, and Allegro on those dates.
 
Features:
 self-updating GUI textbox, just use the insertion operator. (TextBox > data;)
 A simple wrapper for the alert dialog when you just want that one-lined 
 quick OK box.
 
NOTE: Rhide project files 
 are included but if you use them change the directories properly. Right 
 now there is no documentation, but everything DOES work right and well. 
 Look at the example file and .h file to see how to use the lib. This library 
 requires BGUI and Allegro libraries to work.
 
Back to top
 
JPEG library by Eric Vannier. 2/3/98. v1.03
 
THIS IS THE UNOFFICAL FILE.
 
Linux Version 
 -- Windows/DOS Version
 
This is because the official site has been 
 gone for months. Previously I liked to another site but it's been reported 
 broken. Since I literally can't find any other place this been released 
 at, I'm placing the file here since it's needed for some of my games, 
 and also for people looking for it to use. It's provided as-is. This is 
 the source distribution, unzip to a new directory and run make on it. 
 It requires Allegro to work. This library also works with Allegro in its 
 other forms, and I have personally used it on MSVC.
 
Back to top
 
 
Networking
 
Chat.zip -- Chat on the internet. Last Updated: 
 7/19/99
 
Note: This program is going to 
 be pretty much scrapped in the next few days because it might has a bug 
 in it (it may have been the VXD?) and I forgot to include the VXD needed! 
 (lame me). However, the source is still good to look at for beginning 
 BSD sockets. MUUDPIC will basically replace this program and outperform 
 it in every way possible.
 
This zip includes both a chat server, chatserv, 
 and a chat client, chatcli. In order to use these across the internet, 
 you need to know your IP address, which can be found be using winipcfg.exe 
 in Windows 95/98. This program will NOT work in Windows NT because of 
 the differences in the Winsock interface. If you have Windows 98, or a 
 later version of Windows 95 (that has Winsock 2 installed), copy the csock.vxd 
 file into the Windows/System directory. This is a virtual device driver 
 that is run ONLY when this program runs, so it won't take up memory.
 
To use, one computer runs chatserv, and 
 the other chatcli where is the server's IP address. 
 To test it over one computer, open two windows, chatserv in one and chatcli 
 127.0.0.1 in the other. The only major bug is that it is VERY slow, and 
 that is due to a serious bug in the libsocket library that I test, but 
 do not program.
 
This includes the source files since it 
 is primarly for a learning tool for BSD sockets.
 
Back to top
 
 
Profiling
 
Fixtest.cpp -- Allegro's fixed vars with important 
 results! v1. 12/9/98.
 
This test program shows very interesting 
 results concerning Allegro's fixed math routines, and their speed in C++. 
 Seems the fix class in C++ is useless speed-wise as compared to floating 
 point!!! But the C-style fixed typedef is MUCH MUCH faster!!! This compares 
 floats to doubles to Allegro's fixed in various ways. The results are 
 in the comments at the top of the code so click the link to see them and 
 the code below it.
 
Back to top
 
 
Screensavers/Misc
 
StarSaver.zip -- A "starfield" screensaver 
 that runs in DOS Size: 173K Last 
 updated: 3/27/98
 
Requirements: A sound card if you want to hear the music(wavetable 
 MIDI recommended)
 
Instructions: unzip into own directory and run STARS.EXE. 
 The STARS.CFG file has some variables you can change in it, especially 
 the screen resolution and background stars color and number. This was 
 my first project in C++, and in Allegro. This was virtually just for exploration, 
 and a lot of the 3d point theory came from the allegro game demo.
 
Back to top
 
Snow.zip -- For the season. Size: 120k. Last 
 updated: 1/11/99
 
Requirements: 486
 Recommended: Pentium with SVGA VESA compatable card.
 
This will run on virtually all 486 and 
 above computers. Simply, it is a small screen saver where snow falls everywhere. 
 As in the Stars screensaver, there are many editable variables. If I ever 
 update this program, I might put some music in it and a good background 
 picture (which only would take a few minutes if I had the art/music.)
 
Back to top
 
Shipdriv.zip -- A spaceship that flys around 
 joyfully Size: 200K Last updated: 
 4/18/98
 
This spaceship acts just like its real counterpart--it 
 zooms around with speed, acceleration, and many other attributes set by 
 the SHIP.CFG file. It has intertia--it can turn and it'll still 
 keep on going the same direction unless you thrust and it slowly changes. 
 Guns and engines have sounds that pan in stereo as you go accross the 
 screen!
 
This used to be in the tutorials section, but it's not 
 commented and was when I was first starting -- so it's a little trashy 
 and hard to follow. But I'm leaving it here for nostalgia purposes.
 
Back to top
 
 
 
 
