
 
Links Page
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
Links Page
 
All Links open up to a new window. 
 
Emulator Links / Game 
 Links / Programming Links / Music Links / 
 Misc Links
 
Back to Main Page
 
Online Help and Documentation
 
 Dinkum 
 Standard C++ Library Reference -- You can also buy an offline copy. 
 This is the first place to go for help with the iostreams classes.
 
 Microsoft 
 Developer Network Library -- First place to go for help with DirectX 
 or the Win32 API, also has documentaion on the standard C and standard 
 C++ libraries, old and new. Hard to navigate but almost anything you ever 
 would want is here.
 
 SGI 
 STL Reference -- Although the previous two sites have documentation 
 on the entire Standard C++ Library, the SGI site provides the clearest 
 documentation, and also provides examples and explaination.
 
Back to Top
 
Programming
 
 Allegro -- This is, IMO, 
 by far the best independent game programming library for DJGPP/MSVC/Windows/GCC/Linux. 
 It has graphics support up to 1600x1200 at any color depth. It also 
 has FLI support to play movies, and SFX and midi support. And for 
 cards without good midi, it has software wavetable emulation, also. 
 Also included are keyboard, joystick, and other very useful routines all 
 written in C and assembly.
 
 Beej's Sockets 
 -- Learn to program internet applications in UNIX BSD socket style.
 
 
 BGUI -- The original 
 library which I ported to Allegro WIP. Check out the BGUI2 page for more information on my 
 port.
 
 CareerExchange.com -- CareerExchange.com 
 is a Technical Internet career site providing employment and resume information 
 services to job candidates, employers and recruitment firms.
 
 DJGPP -- This is the well-known 
 GNU C++ complier. It is free to download and use, and on the website 
 it A LOT of useful info to get started, as well as links to many other 
 additions and libraries to DJGPP. 
 
 Fly 3D Engine -- Although 
 I haven't used it first-hand, it looks like a very good quality and promising 
 free 3D engine SDK.
 
 Jobs! -- You want a job? Jobs 
 for programmers offers the web's top employment site for programmers. 
 Search for jobs in C++, Visual Basic, Java, Oracle, WWW, Cobol, even Telecommute! 
 Thousands of resumes online.
 
 JustCJobs.com -- Part of the 
 jobsite collection from JustComputerJobs.com. A jobsite for IT professionals, 
 but with a twist. Rather than being a single monolithic jobsite that contains 
 hundreds of thousands of postings for every discipline within the technology 
 industry, JustComputerJobs.com is your gateway to a collection of 40 technology 
 niched jobsites.
 
Back to Top
 
 Ultima Page -- Tchernobill's 
 page which has a lot of content and more on the way. Topics include programming, 
 cryptology, HTML, retro games and RPGs.
 
 Libsocket -- A winsock access 
 library for DJGPP in the middle to later stages of development. Winsock 
 1 support is good although Winsock 2 support is not very workable now.
 
 THe_MaSTeR'S Webempire 
 -- A site cataloging information for beginners such as tutorials, books, 
 links and other resources. If you are a beginner and are looking to search 
 for new sites for help this site should help.
 
 The Programming Sharehouse 
 -- This website offers a large searchable directory of programming tutorials, 
 source code files, programs, tools, links to other sites, games, articles, 
 tips, and FAQs--covering many programming languages and topics. Our site 
 also provides some forums, where you can post programming questions or 
 comments.
 
 Spriteworks Developments 
 -- Spriteworks v1.0 is sprite, graphics library for game programmers5,000 
 icons and includes a viewer. I have viewed this and it looks very good 
 and very . Icon bank v2.0 contains professional!
 
 QBASIC Programming Tutorial 
 -- from the same author of "The Programming Sharehouse," a good 
 tutorial for beginning programmers.
 
Back to Top
 
Games
 
 Here are links to games and pages on games. 
 
 Allegro.cc -- This is a listing 
 of games made/being made using Allegro, including mine. Almost every single 
 one is freeware.
 
 Blizzard and Battle.Net 
 -- Blizzard software's HQ site. Check out Diablo 2 and Warcraft 3 here.
 
 Bungie.Net -- (7/16)Home of Myth 
 II:Soulbligher, a good RTS wargame.
 
 Madmonkey Independent 
 Games -- Similar to Allegro.cc, but not limited to Allegro or DOS 
 games, but instead open to all games made by independent developers. My 
 games are also listed on this site.
 
 Utopia -- Utopia is a 
 totally web-based fantasy strategy game that is in "real-time", 
 not turn based. Some modern computer gamers might be dissapointed from 
 the lack of spiffy 3D graphics which are replaced by HTML pages, but give 
 it a chance and role-play into it. Echelon Games provides this game, 
 as well as my message boards!
 
Back to Top
 
Emulators
 
 Emulators are computer programs that emulate other 
 computers, like Atari's, Commodores, calculators, and even console systems 
 like Nintendo SNES and Sega Genesis.
 
 SNES9X -- This emulator has been totally continued back again 
 and is in full support. Super FX support is added and it's much better 
 now, check it out!
 
 ZSNES -- This is, IMHO, the best 
 SNES emulator out there. It has by far THE BEST graphics and it's 
 speed and sound are MUCH better. Very recently they have done something 
 that people have been waiting a long time for -- now some games actually 
 play BETTER than on the SNES, due to much higher resolutions capable by 
 computers.
 
Back to Top
 
Music
 
 Mirc-X -- The ultimate mIRC and 
 MP3 search resource. You can also download mIRC here.
 
 Winamp -- The best MP3 player out 
 there. MP3 is a cd-quality sound format that is tightly compressed 
 (approx 1min/meg), which is a major improvment over WAV.
 
Back to Top
 
Miscellaneous Links
 
 AutoSpeak -- Everything and 
 anything about cars, espically racing cars. Some of the canidate tank 
 sounds I got from this site. If you like cars and racing at all you want 
 to visit this site.
 
 Mathtools.net -- Mathtools.net 
 is the technical computing portal for all scientific and engineering needs. 
 The portal is provided as a free service to the scientific community and 
 contains useful links for technical computing programmers.
 
 Cartoon a day -- By Andover.net, the same people who bring the 
 internet status report. This links goes to their cartoon page, but 
 from here one can get to their other pages with internet speed status 
 charts and info.
 
 HardOCP -- Similar to the above 
 sites, but this site is much less serious, and has been one of the most 
 HILARIOUS sites I've ever visited. They like to tear apart out processors, 
 super-tweak out really ancient hardware, and find the most obscure hardware 
 news. Of course they still have some of the good 'ol boring serious information 
 as well.
 
 Jason Asato's Computer Graphics 
 Page -- (7/16)This guy did the full screen art for JetFight and Project 
 V2143, and the landscape on PV2143. Check his page out, this guy has LOTS 
 of talent!
 
 Tweak3D -- THE site for learning 
 on how to tweak all parts of your system, as well as the latest techniques. 
 This is espically useful for 3D action gamers.
 
Back to Top
 
BACK TO MAIN PAGE
 
 
