
 
Gillius's Programming
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
Welcome to Gillius's Programming. You can use the URL 
 http://come.to/gillius to reach this 
 site, or use http://www.rit.edu/~jpw9607/ if 
 you bookmark or wish to skip the ads.
 
Latest News
 The latest news about GNE is located on the GNE 
 SourceForge Site
 
 
 6/30/02 
 -- Oops 
 
 
 
 
Boy that was a little dumb. I messed up the poll. I changed the 
 answers but forgot to update the question. Anyways the new poll 
 has been correctly. I always find the locale diversity of the internet 
 very interesting. Now that the internet has moved mostly out of 
 the US I notice now most of my e-mail from this site comes from 
 outside the US.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6/23/02 
 -- Site Updates 
 
 
 
 
I've been needing to edit some things on my site for a long time. 
 I did some cleanup work on e-mail adresses. I also temporarily took 
 my resume down as I now have a job and there is not a reason to 
 keep it up (but I was still getting offers). Thankfully, I have 
 finally changed the poll. That poll had been up how long? I don't 
 know a year or more. Some of you also may have noticed that some 
 time ago I took down the Java stuff because of certain issues with 
 people using my code inappropriately. Hopefully someday I will have 
 some Java stuff for you -- I still do lots of Java programming, 
 but only for work, so that is why you see no Java projects. All 
 of my personal projects I do in C++.
 
As for GNE, I really need to get started working on that again. 
 I just started a new job and before was home for a few weeks. I 
 think right before then I had a completed version of GNE on my disk! 
 This was a month ago, and I've yet to work on it. Looking at it 
 the last day and through my journal I don't see anything else I 
 needed to do before it came out (actually I did want to redo some 
 documentation). I'm surprised I stopped when I was so close, so 
 I will be testing GNE and checking everything out, and if it all 
 looks good there will be a 0.55 release very soon.
 
Needless to say, I'm still very alive despite the stagnation of 
 my site.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3/26/02 
 -- The Resurrection (and GNE 0.49a) 
 
 
 I have finally gotten a working computer after 
 my last one was destroyed during shipping. I managed to release GNE 
 0.49a which had the code before my old computer was destroyed. I have 
 not lost any data, so fear not, GNE is not dead, although I still 
 have much work to catch up on, plus I have just started back up at 
 college, so it may be quite some time before GNE goes back to full-swing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2/16/02 
 -- GNE Beginner's Guide 
 
 
 I've updloaded the latest version of the GNE documentation 
 on the GNE page. It applies to the CVS version of GNE which has changes 
 over the latest public version, but I included it because it has the 
 new beginner's guide. Please read it and let me know what you think 
 of it, and if it was useful for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/24/02 
 -- GNE Protocol Version 1 Second Draft 
 
 
 The second GNE protocol draft is completed. The 
 main change is that I forgot to specify bandwith throttling in the 
 first draft. This adds that, several packets, and throughout the documentation 
 are significant clairifications and fixes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/24/02 
 -- GNE Protocol Version 1 Draft 
 
 
 The first draft for the GNE protocol has been completed. 
 Everything in the document is tenatively completed except that some 
 higher-level packet types will be created but the high-level packets 
 don't affect the actual workings of the protocol but rater are more 
 like "GNE official extensions." Check out the GNE 
 page for more info. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/24/02 
 -- Site Design Updates 
 
 
 I've been doing a lot of work on the implementation 
 of this site's code. I have converted almost all of the old HTML formatting 
 that was used in the very old pages that had not been updated since 
 the last redesign. The fonts and their sizes have been changed as 
 well. There are definitely some spots I have missed and due to search/replaces 
 I've done there may be some formatting lost too. There have also been 
 lots of minor little changes everywhere. Let me know if you see anything 
 that has gone wrong. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/17/02 
 -- GNE 0.45 alpha 
 
 
 The new version of GNE is out. This is almost as 
 big of a release as the last GNE release, so check it out. Find out 
 more of what's changed on the GNE page 
 and on the GNE SourceForge site. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Old News Archives
 
 
 Allegro's 
 WebRing 
 Previous Site Ring's Home Next Site 
 
 
 Random Site Skip Next Site List Next 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DJGPP's 
 WebRing 
 Previous Site Ring's Home Next Site 
 
 
 Random Site Skip Next Site List Next 5 
 
 
 
 
