
C++ reference: cstdio library (stdio.h)
 
 cplusplus.com >
 reference >
 cstdio
 
stdio.h
 
 
cplusplus.com 
Standard C library for Input/Output with streams
 stdio.h summary
Functions:
clearerr Reset error indicators. 
fclose Close a stream. 
feof Check if End Of File has been reached. 
ferror Check for errors. 
fflush Flush a stream. 
fgetc Get next character from a stream. 
fgetpos Get position in a stream. 
fgets Get string from a stream. 
fopen Open a file. 
fprintf Print formatted data to a stream. 
fputc Write character to a stream. 
fputchar Write character to stdout. 
fputs Write string to a stream. 
fread Read block of data from a stream. 
freopen Reopen a file using a different file mode. 
fscanf Read formatted data from a stream. 
fseek Reposition stream's position indicator. 
fsetpos Reposition file pointer to a saved location. 
ftell Return the current position of the file pointer. 
fwrite Write block of data to a stream. 
getc Get the next character. 
getchar Get the next character from stdin. 
gets Get a string from stdin. 
getw Get the next int value from a stream. 
perror Print error message. 
printf Print formatted data to stdout. 
putc Write character to a stream. 
putchar Write character to stdout. 
puts Write a string to stdout. 
putw Write an integer to a stream. 
remove Delete a file. 
rename Rename a file or directory. 
rewind Reposition file pointer to the beginning of a stream. 
scanf Read formatted data from stdin. 
setbuf Change stream buffering. 
setvbuf Change stream buffering. 
sprintf Format data to a string. 
sscanf Read formatted data from a string. 
tmpfile Open a temporary file. 
tmpnam Generate a unique temporary filename. 
ungetc Push a character back into stream. 
 
stdio.h summary:
Streams.
 
Streams are an abstraction used in C and C++ for input and output
operations through I/O devices based on characters, like 
files, keyboard, printer, screen and I/O ports.
 
A stdio.h stream is represented by a pointer to a FILE
structure that contains internal info about properties and indicators of a file.
Normally data contained in these structures are not
referred directly.
When using stdio.h functions, pointer to FILE structures are only used
to be passed as parameters to I/O functions.
Properties.
 
A stream has some properties that defines which functions can be used with it or how the
functions will treat the stream.
Most of them are defined in the mode parameter when fopen
function is called.
Access
Specifies if the operations performed with the stream will have read and/or write access to the file.
Text / Binary
Text files are those where lines are delimited by the special character EOL (End Of Line),
and some translations occur when this special character is read or written for that these file can
be directly outputed to a console. The End of a
text file is defined by the first occurrence of the EOF character.
A binary file is a file where each byte is read or written as a character,
no translations occur,
and the End of a binary file matches with the physical End of the File.
Buffer
A buffer is a block of memory where data is accumulated before being
physically read or written to the file.
Buffered stream causes I/O operations with the stream to be faster because normally buffers are faster than physical devices
like disks or ports. A stream can be unbuffered so the data is directly read or written to the device.
The use of stream buffers can be specified using functions setbuf
and setvbuf.
 
Indicators.
 
A stream has some indicators that specify the current state of it. These are internally
modified and affect the behavior of Input/Output functions:
Error Indicator
This indicator is set when an error has occurred in an operation related with the stream.
This indicator can be checked using ferror,
and can be reset by a call
to clearerr or by any repositioning functions
(rewind, fseek and fsetpos).
End-Of-File Indicator
When this indicator is set, the last reading or writing operation permormed
has reached the End of the file associated with
the stream. This can be checked with the feof function,
and can be reset by calling
to clearerr or by any repositioning functions
(rewind, fseek and fsetpos).
Position Indicator (File pointer)
This indicator is an internal pointer that points to the next character within the stream that has to be read or
written by the next I/O operation. This value can be obtained by the ftell
and fgetpos functions,
and can be changed calling to rewind, fseek and fsetpos functions
Standard Streams
 
When a program that includes stdio.h begin its execution, three predefined
streams are opened:
stdin
This is the standard input stream. By default stdin corresponds to the keyboard,
but this can be redirected by the operating system.
stdout
This is the standard output stream. By default stdout is directed to the screen,
but the operating system can redirect it to a file or any other output device.
stderr
The standard error stream. This is an output stream specifically intendend to
receive error messages. By default is directed to the standard output (like stdout),
but it can be redirected to a log file or any other output device.
© The C++ Resources Network, 2000
