
Help - gnatsweb
gcc User: guest 
 
 gnatsweb
 
 
MAIN PAGE CREATE QUERY ADV. QUERY LOGIN AGAIN HELP 
 
Help
 
	 
Gnatsweb User Guide
	 
Introduction
	 
The Gnatsweb interface is a front-end to the GNATS problem
	tracking system used to create, view and modify GNATS problem reports. Support
	organizations can use it for tracking of issues related to products that are
	supported (i.e. software, hardware, documentation, etc.) Problem reports are
	used to notify responsible parties of problems. When the problems are
	looked into, the problem reports can be edited and email gets sent to all
	interested parties.
	 
 The Gnatsweb help is divided into the following sections:
	 
	
- Login Page
	
- Main Page
	
- Create Problem Report Page
	
- Edit Problem Report Page
	
- View Problem Report Page
	
- Query Problem Reports Page
	
- Advanced Query Page
	
- Query Results Page
	 
	 
 For more information about GNATS, see the
	GNATS home page.
	 
Login Page
	 
The login page is used to login to the GNATS system. The first time
	Gnatsweb is used, this page is presented. After the first time, the
	main page is displayed because the settings are stored in
	cookies on the machine that has the web browser running. There is a button on
	the main page that takes the user to the Login Page. This
	button is used to select a new database if desired. There are several controls
	on the screen: 
	 
	
	 User Name: (textbox) 
	 This is the GNATS user name to login as. 
	 Password: (textbox)
	 This is the GNATS password for the user name.
	 Database: (combobox)
	 This selects the database to login to. The dropdown menu lists all
	 the available databases.
	 Login (button) 
	 This logs into the selected GNATS database.
	
	 
If the user name and password are correct, the main
	page will be shown.
	 
Main Page
	 
The main page is used to select the various operations within the GNATS
	database. There are seven operations available from this page:
	 
	
	 Create Problem Report: (button)
	 This button displays the Create Problem Report
	 Page. It is used to create a new problem report.
	 Edit Problem Report: (button and textbox)
	 This is used to edit an existing problem report. The Problem Report
	 Number is entered into the text box and either the ENTER key is
	 pressed or the Edit button is pressed.
	 View Problem Report: (button and textbox)
	 This is used to view an existing problem report. The Problem Report
	 Number is entered into the text box and either the ENTER key is
	 pressed or the Edit button is pressed.
	 Query Problem Reports:
	 This button displays the Query Problem Reports
	 Page. Used for querying of existing problem reports.
	 Advanced Query:
	 
	 This button displays the Advanced Query
	 Page. Used for complex querying of existing problem reports.
	 Login again:
	 This button displays the Login Page. Used for
	 selecting a different GNATS database.
	 Help:
	 Displays the Gnatsweb User Guide.
	 
	 
Create Problem Report Page
	 
The Create Problem Report page is used to create a new problem report.
	There are many controls on this page. Here is a description of each one: 
	 
	
	 Reporter's email: (textbox)
	 This is the person filing the new problem report. This is necessary
	 because someone without access to the GNATS database may be the
	 Originator (described below).
	 CC: (textbox)
	 Carbon copy the problem report to this email address. This is
	 useful for sending a new problem report to interested parties. Future changes
	 to the problem report are not emailed to this address.
	 Others to notify of updates: (textbox)
	 This can be a comma separated list of email addresses that will be
	 notified when this problem report changes. This is useful for others that may
	 be interested in this problem.
	 Category: (combobox)
	 This combobox allows the selection of a category which the problem
	 report should be filed under. Category names might for instance correspond to
	 product names.
	 Synopsis: (textbox)
	 This is a short description of a problem. This is used in the
	 Query Page and the Advanced Query
	 Page.
	 Confidential: (combobox)
	 This combobox selects whether or not the problem report is
	 confidential. This is useful since in-house problem reports don't necessarily
	 need to be seen by the public.
	 Severity: (combobox)
	 This has three options: critical, serious,
	 non-critical. This is a best guess (i.e. if the hardware catches fire,
	 it should probably be critical). When creating a problem report, the
	 severity level is often merely an educated guess. It will often be changed
	 later on, based on the assessment of the GNATS administrator or the person
	 responsible for the problem category.
	 Priority: (combobox)
	 Like severity, this is merely a guess at the priority level of the
	 problem.
	 Class: (combobox)
	 The class of the problem. This is also a guess.
	 Submitter-Id: (combobox)
	 The valid submitter identification. If this is unknown, leave the
	 default setting. Otherwise select the one desired.
	 Originator: (textbox)
	 An email address of the person reporting the problem. This is often
	 the same as the Reporter's email address. 
	 Release: (textbox)
	 This should include the installed version of the product which the
	 problem report applies to, together with identification of applied patches,
	 updates, fixes etc. Accurate information in this field is often critical for
	 tracking and diagnosis of the problem.
	 Environment: (textbox)
	 A description of the environment where the problem occurred.
	 Important information might include hardware make and model, operating system
	 name and version, system patchlevels etc. In general: the more, the
	 better.
	 Description: (multi-line textbox)
	 A full description of the problem. Good descriptions become good
	 solutions. Bad descriptions make problems hard to solve.
	 How-To-Repeat: (multi-line textbox)
	 This is a description of the steps necessary to recreate the
	 problem.
	 Fix: (multi-line textbox)
	 If a workaround or fix has been determined, this is the place to
	 put that information.
	 Submit (button)
	 This submits the problem report to the GNATS database. Email will
	 be sent to the Reporter's email and Originator's email addresses,
	 and all other parties listed in the Others to notify field. The GNATS
	 administrator and the responsible person also gets a copy.
	 Reset (button)
	 Reset all fields to defaults. Most the textboxes are cleared and
	 the comboboxes are set to their defaults.
	 
	 
Edit Problem Report Page
	 
The Edit page is used to modify a problem report when a solution or fix
	has been found, or when any other change to the problem report is required.
	Many of the fields parallel the Create Problem Report
	Page (consult that section for a description of the other fields), but
	others are specific to the edit page.
	 
 Some fields have a textbox labeled Reason Changed just below
	them. If the field above has been modified, the Reason Changed field must be
	filled in. This is used for tracking the changes to various fields deemed
	important enough to require an explicit reason for change.
	 
 Here are the fields on the edit page that come in addition to those on
	the Create Problem Report page:
	 
	
	 Responsible: (combobox)
	 This is the identity of the individual who is responsible for
	 handling the problem report.
	 Reason Changed: (multi-line textbox) below the Responsible
	 field.
	 If the Responsible field changes, this must be filled in with a
	 reason for the change.
	 State: (combobox)
	 The current state of the problem report. Usually this field is
	 changed by the Responsible person as the handling of the problem report
	 progresses.
	 Reason Changed: (multi-line textbox) below the State
	 field.
	 If the State field changes, this must be filled in with a reason
	 for the change.
	 Class: (combobox)
	 The class of the problem report.
	 Release-Note: (multi-line textbox)
	 This field is usually used when a problem report has been closed
	 and incorporated into a new release of a product. The release notes are then
	 usually collected for use in an update report to be distributed with the
	 released software.
	 Submit Edit (button)
	 This submits the changes to the GNATS database. Another page is
	 displayed with the results. If fields are missing or incorrectly filled out,
	 the changes necessary to fix the problem are displayed. By using the 'back'
	 button in the web browser, the user can go back to the problem report, correct
	 the errors and resubmit.
	 Audit-Trail: (multi-line text display)
	 This is a cumulative description of all the changes made to this
	 problem report.
	 
	 
View Problem Report Page
	 
The View page is used to display a GNATS problem report without changing
	it. It has the same fields described in the Create Problem
	Report Page and the Edit Problem Report Page, together
	with two additional buttons and a link:
	 
	
	 Edit (button)
	 This displays the edit page.
	 View audit-trail (button)
	 Because the Audit-Trail field can get quite long, it is only
	 displayed when this button is clicked.
	 send email to interested parties (link)
	 This is for sending email to the parties interested in this problem
	 report.
	 
	 
Query Problem Reports Page
	 
The Query Problem Reports page is for simple searches of the problem
	report database. It displays the Query Results Page.
	The fields are "anded" together for the search, meaning that all the criteria
	selected must match each problem report searched in order for the report to be
	included in the results. There are several selections that can be made:
	 
	
	 Submit stored query (button and combobox)
	 Often repeated queries can be stored from the Query Results Page. This selects a previously stored
	 query. If no queries have been stored, this field is not displayed.
	 Category: (combobox)
	 This will select all or a specific category to search.
	 Severity: (combobox)
	 This will select all or a specific severity to search.
	 Priority: (combobox)
	 This will select all or a specific priority to search.
	 Responsible: (combobox)
	 This will select all or a specific responsible to
	 search.
	 State: (combobox)
	 This will select all or a specific state to search.
	 Ignore Closed (checkbox)
	 This selects whether or not to ignore closed problem reports
	 (ignore is on by default).
	 Class: (combobox)
	 This will select all or a specific class to search.
	 Synopsis Search: (textbox)
	 This will search the synopsis field for the text entered.
	 Multi-line Text Search:
	 
	 This will search all the multi-line text fields for the text
	 entered.
	 Column Display: (multi-select listbox)
	 This selects the columns to be displayed in the query results
	 table. The selection is stored by the web browser, so the next time a query is
	 requested, the columns selected for the previous query will be selected by
	 default.
	 Display Current Date (checkbox)
 This selects whether or not to display the current date and time on the
	 query results page. (this is on by default).
	 Submit query (button)
	 This submits the query and the Query Results
	 Page is displayed.
	
	 
	 
Advanced Query Problem Reports Page
	 
The Advanced Query Problem Reports page is not for the faint of heart.
	This is a very complicated form with many features. There are three buttons and
	a combobox to start the search:
	 
	
	 Submit stored query (button and combobox)
	 Often repeated queries can be stored from the Query Results Page. This selects a previously stored
	 query. If no queries have been stored, this field is not displayed.
	 Submit query (button)
	 Submit the advanced query, and display the Query Results Page.
	 Reset (button)
	 Reset the form.
	
	 
There are four sub-sections to this form:
	 
	
- Search All Text
	
- Search By Date
	
- Search Individual Fields
	
- Select Columns to Display
	 
	 
Any one of these sub-sections can be used separately or together for
	complex searches.
	 
Search All Text
	 
There are two types of searches on all text:
	 
	
- Single-line text fields
	
- Multi-line text fields
	 
	 
Regular expressions can be used in searches.
	 
Search By Date
	 
The Search By Date sub-section allows you to limit the range of problem
	reports according to various time parameters. There are six self explanatory
	fields available:
	 
	
- Arrived After
	
- Arrived Before
	
- Modified After
	
- Modified Before
	
- Closed After
	
- Closed Before
	 
	 
The dates are entered in a string like: 1999-04-01 05:00 GMT.
	Though the date matching scheme is pretty robust, it should accept quite a few
	formats.
	 
Search Individual Fields
	 
The Search Individual Fields sub-section is used for matching based on a
	specific field in the GNATS problem report. All the fields have a textbox for
	doing regular expression searches. Where applicable, fields have a multi-select
	listbox that can be used. When nothing is entered for the textbox or selected
	in the listbox, those fields are not used in the match. Here are the valid
	matchable fields:
	 
	
- Category
	
- Synopsis
	
- Confidential
	
- Severity
	
- Priority
	
- Responsible
	
- State
	
- Class
	
- Submitter-Id
	
- Originator
	
- Release
	 
	 
Each field is described in the Create Problem Report
	Page or the Edit Problem Report Page sections of this
	user guide. The 'state' field also has an 'Ignore Closed' checkbox to ignore
	all closed problem reports.
	 
Display
	 
This sub-section contains a multi-select listbox that is used to set the
	displayable columns in the Query Results Page.
 
Below this is a checkbox entitled "Display Current Date". This checkbox controls
 whether or not the current date will be displayed on the query results page.
 (this is on by default).
	 
Query Results Page
	 
The problem report table displayed shows the problem report numbers as
	links to the View Problem Report Page. In order to sort the
	table by the contents of a specific column, click the column heading.
	 
At the bottom of the page is a text entry field and a button to store a
	query selection. Stored queries are accessible from the Query
	Problem Reports Page or the Advanced Query Problem
	Reports Page. This provides for a quick way to repeat often-made searches
	without having to make all the selections again.
