
 
BGui2
 
 
 Gillius's Programming 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 Home / News
 Tutorials
 Games Corner
 Java
 The Archive
 Links 
 
 
 Fourms 
 
 
 Current Projects 
 
 
 
 
GNE v.49a
 --Game Networking Engine
 
Itana v.71a
 --2D multiplayer space game
 
 
 
 Complete Projects 
 
 
 BGui2 
 v.2.0.2
 Deathworms
 MUUDPIC 
 
 
 Contact 
 Gillius 
 
 
 Gillius's 
 Resume 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Location 
 
 
 
 
 
 What part of the world do you 
 live in? 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 South America 
 
 
 
 
 Europe 
 
 
 
 
 Africa 
 
 
 
 
 West/North Asia (like Russia) 
 
 
 
 
 East/South Asia (like India and Japan) 
 
 
 
 
 Australia / Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 Middle East 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current 
 results 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alxnet 
 Free Web Tools 
 
 
 
 View old poll results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 since 5/14/01 
 
 
 
 
 
BGui Version 2.0.2
 
This is a rerelease of the BGui library 
 1.0 originally made by Dan Huizenga (Skis), released on 9/30/98. His webpage 
 is located at http://www.concentric.net/~Skis/, and his most recent email address is skis@concentric.net.
 
Section 
 Contents
 
Why I released the 
 new code unofficially
 What is BGui?
 Screenshot
 What are some of the exact 
 changes I have made to the original BGUI?
 Latest Changes
 Download BGui
 
Back 
 to Main Page
 
Why I released the new code unofficially:
 
The reason why I've decided to do this is because the 
 latest version of BGui 1.0 works only in the DJGPP version of Allegro 
 3.0. Even in the 1.0 original release the drop boxes segfaulted, and there 
 were memory leaks and dereferenced NULL pointers, and the moving windows 
 were very inefficient. I managed to fix these things, and optimize some 
 things here and there as well, which included a total rewrite of the window 
 moving system which now includes buffering and updating options to tweak 
 the performance to your needs.
 
I've had the code fixed all along as Allegro was updated 
 to the WIP so basically it has been sitting on my hard drive since the 
 summer of 2000 unmodified. I receive requests often when people hear I 
 have a working version -- so now I have decided to formally package and 
 distribute BGui as the author has been unresponsive to my attempts to 
 get him to release an official version.
 
Note that my main priority was to keep the library functioning 
 correctly (as per its original functions ) and relatively efficent as 
 Allegro moved from DOS to the multi-platform WIP. So although the library 
 functions properly, the quality/correctness/accuracy of the documentation 
 and the "style" of the code have not been improved much since 
 the original version.
 
Back to the Section 
 Contents
 
What is BGui?
 
BGui is a Windows 95 look and feel replacement for the 
 Allegro GUI. The BGui functions are identical in function to their Allegro 
 counterparts (except UNICODE text is not supported in many objects), but 
 the objects appear with a Windows 95 look and feel, rather than the Allegro 
 standard.
 
Added features include more widgets, including the drop 
 box, and moveable windows with customizable buffering options.
 
Back to the Section 
 Contents
 
Screenshot
 
This screenshot is taken from the BGui 
 test/example program included in the download.
 
 
Back to the Section 
 Contents
 
What are some of the exact changes I made to the original BGUI?
 
I brought the code to the WIP standards by using gui_mouse_x 
 and gui_mouse_y, and using acquire and release screen functions as these 
 are needed under Windows. The author stated 80% of the code was copied 
 out of Allegro, and this is true, but I removed code where I could and 
 called Allegro routines rather than having their copied code, although 
 I have not catched all of this. Also the widgets I had to work greatly 
 on or rewrite not have unicode support -- BUT NOTE: MANY OF THE BGUI FUNCTIONS STILL DO 
 NOT HAVE UNICODE SUPPORT. They will have to be all edited to support it. If anyone wants to take 
 on this task, free free to do so, but my main motivation for this project 
 was to get and keep BGUI working.
 
See the readme.txt file in the download package for more details.
 
Back to the Section 
 Contents
 
Latest Changes
 
 
 changes.txt
 
 
 BGui v2.0.2 -- 20 Jan 2001:
 Jason Winnebeck:
	Quickly added ability for editboxes and listboxes to be D_DISABLED
BGui v2.0.1 -- 19 Oct 2000:
 Jason Winnebeck:
 Reformatted the text files -- they were wrapped to 88 characters, not
 78. Added .sh and .bat files to convert text types and copy the
 proper makefile to Makefile.
 Fixed btest.c to not lock up in Windows when taking a screen shot.
 Chris de Sousa:
 Added 2 makefiles, 1 for dos and 1 for linux.
 Made a few changes to btest.c to make it compile with glibc,
 the itoa function is not standard, so i used sprintf instead.
 Also changed the structure a bit, sources in src/, docs in /docs,
 libs in /libs.
 
Download BGui
 
If you don't have a makefile for 
 your platform:
 
All of the C source files besides btest.c should be compiled into 
 a static library. The header file you need to include is called tdgui.h.
 
I am naming the statically linked library "lib/???bgui.???" 
 and "lib/???bguid.???" for the optimized and debug versions, 
 respectively, if you wish to contribute a makefile.
 
Thanks go out to Chris de Sousa (his website) for the UNIX makefile and the DOS makefile.
 
BOTH FILES contain 
 the same things:
 
source code
 example/test program
 documentation
 installation files
 MSVC 6 project files
 DOS and UNIX makefiles
 scripts/batfiles for converting between DOS and UNIX format text
 
Download files, MS-DOS format text:
 This version works on Linux too with fixunix.sh!
 bgui2.zip version 2.0.2 (55k)
 
Back to the Section 
 Contents
 
Back 
 to Main Page
 
 
 
 
