
Hoskinson's Button Menu Applet
 
 
 
 
 
JResources.com Channels
 
 
(Download the Java source code for the JResources.com applet collection)
Hoskinson's Button
Menu Applet 
 
 
 
 
Home
 
Introduction
Search
Discussion Forums
Disclaimer
License
Feedback
 
Applets
 
Ad banner
Ticker
Hyperlinked ticker
Vertical scroller
Hyperlinked banner
Button menu
Web site shortcuts
Animator
Digital clock
Growing text
Rainbow text
RGB calculator
 
Servlets
 
JDBC Connector Servlet
XMLDataGateway Servlet
 
Applications
 
Web server query tool
Simple text editor
 
MS Java Resources
 
GUID generator
Java NSLookup
Code-behind HTML (Pt 1)
Code-behind HTML (Pt 2)
 
Other Resources
 
JavaSoft
Gamelan
JARS
MS Java
Hoskinson.net
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, your browser does not support Java
 
Hoskinson's Button Menu Applet allows
you to create your own customized web site button bar. With the Button Menu
Applet, you can: 
 
- Display a customized web site button bar arrayed in any
 combination of rows and columns. 
 
- Assign each button it's own hyperlink and browser frame
 target. Hyperlinks can be defined as either absolute or relative URLs. 
 
- Define a custom font name, style, and size for your button
 bar. 
 
- Specify a custom foreground and background color for your
 button bar. 
 
- Specify a custom "hot spot" color for your button
 bar. Each button label changes to this color when the mouse is moved over the
 button. 
This is what the mark-up looks like to implement the Button
Menu applet in your HTML page (Note: this assumes that buttonMenu_andyhosk.class and
supporting files are in the same directory as their parent HTML page). The
parameters, by the way, correspond to the instance that is running at the top of this
page: 
 
Sorry, your browser does not support Java 
 
 
 Parameter 
 Default Value 
 Possible Values 
 
 
 buttonlabels 
 Hoskinson's Home Page 
 A carat ("^") delimited string representing the
 button labels. Please note that the number of buttonlabels must match the number of
 URLs. 
 
 
 URLs 
 http://members.aol.com/andyhosk/ 
 A carat ("^") delimited string representing the
 URLs that are loaded when their respective button is clicked. These URLs can be
 either absolute or relative URLs. If you want to use a relative URL, your URL should be
 relative to the URL of the document in which the applet is running. Please note that
 the number of URLs must match the number of buttonlabels. 
 
 
 targets 
 _self for all buttons 
 This is anoptional parameter representing the
 target browser windows in which the aforementioned URLs are loaded when their respective
 button is clicked. You can use this parameter in one of three ways: 
 
- Omit this parameter in it's entirety. If this
 parameter is not present, the TARGET attribute will default to _self (the current
 browser window or frame) for all hyperlinks. 
 
- Specify one (and only one) frame target. All
 hyperlinks will default to this frame target. Allowable values include _top (the
 top level browser window), _self (the current browser window or frame), _blank (a
 new browser window), or the name of any open browser frame. 
 
- Specify a carat ("^") delimited string
 representing the target browser windows in which the aforementioned URLs are loaded when
 their respective button is clicked. Allowable values include _top (the top
 level browser window), _self (the current browser window or frame), _blank (a
 new browser window), or the name of any open browser frame. If you use this option,
 the number of targets must match the number of buttonlabels and URLs. 
 
 
 
 
 fontname 
 Arial 
 Any installed font. 
 
 
 fonttype 
 bold 
 plain, bold, or italic. 
 
 
 fontsize 
 12 
 Any valid point size. 
 
 
 bgcolor 
 white 
 The applet's background color. Legal values include white,
 black, red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink, orange, or
 an integer representing the RGB value (See Note Below). 
 
 
 fgcolor 
 blue 
 The applet's foreground color. Legal values include white,
 black, red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink, orange, or
 an integer representing the RGB value (See Note Below). 
 
 
 buttoncolor 
 defaults to the background color 
 The color of the individual buttons. This is an
 optional parameter; if it is not used, it defaults to the background color. Legal
 values include white, black, red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta,
 cyan, pink, orange, or an integer representing the RGB value (See Note Below). 
 
 
 linkcolor 
 red 
 The "hot spot" color to which each
 button label changes when the mouse is moved over the button. Legal values include
 white, black, red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink,
 orange, or an integer representing the RGB value (See Note Below). 
 
 
 rows 
 1 
 The number of rows you want to use in arraying your button
 bar. For best results, (rows * cols) should equal the number of buttons. 
 
 
 cols 
 1 
 The number of columns you want to use in arraying your
 button bar. For best results, (rows * cols) should equal the number of buttons. 
 
 
 buffer 
 10 
 The buffer (in pixels) between buttons. Defaults to
 10. 
 
 
 raisedborder 
 0 
 The 3D raised border of each button (in pixels). Defaults
 to 0 (no border). 
 
 
 xcoord 
 center 
 Upper left x coordinate of the button labels, or
 "center" (if you want the button labels centered horizontally). 
 
 
 ycoord 
 center 
 Upper left y coordinate of the button labels, or
 "center" (if you want the button labels centered vertically). 
 
 
 cabbase 
 
None 
 This is an optional parameter used to identify the Java
 Cabinet file that Microsoft Internet Explorer 3.x uses to find the applet .class files. I
 have provided a Cabinet file called buttonMenu_andyhosk.cab
 which contains the applet's three class files (buttonMenu_andyhosk.class
 , buttonMenu_lib.class, and menuButton_andyhosk.class). 
I emphasize that this is an optional parameter. It is not required
 that you use the Cabinet file, even for your Internet Explorer users. It does improve
 performance for your MSIE users, though, by decreasing download times. 
 
If the cabbase parameter is used, the Cabinet file
 must be located in the CODEBASE directory. If you use the cabinet file, you should still
 include the .class files in the CODEBASE directory for Netscape Navigator users. 
 
Troubleshooting Note: If you have problems implementing this applet in your HTML page, take
a look at your browser's Java log......the applet logs all error and warning messages
there, and will most likely log the cause of your problem (BTW, a vast majority of
problems implementing this applet are due to syntax errors in the APPLET tag parameters,
so please double-check your mark-up). 
Background and Foreground Color Attributes 
Most people will find the thirteen basic colors sufficient.
However, you can set the background and foreground color of the applet to any one of the
16+ million colors in the 24 bit RGB (Red-Green-Blue) spectrum. But first, you must
calculate the value of your custom color. To facilitate this, please use this calculator. 
To use this applet, download the following three files: 
Download buttonMenu_andyhosk.class
, buttonMenu_lib.class, and menuButton_andyhosk.class, and place all three
files in the same directory). 
 
 
Copyright © 1996-99, JResources.com. All rights
 reserved.
Download the Java source code for the JResources.com applet collection
 
 
 
 
