 
 
 
 devicetop.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 login
 
 password
 
 
 
 logout 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 join devicetop! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 home 
 0 pts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RE:LOAD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Sign 
 up today to receive re:load - the weekly newsletter from devicetop.com. 
 Keep current with the latest industry news, downloads, contest details, 
 and poll results. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Create Compelling Java Applications 
 for Smart Devices? 
 
 
Start by downloading free development tools here at devicetop.com. 
 Depending on your project, choose from the Espial Suite for TV or the 
 Espial Suite for Devices. 
 
Not sure how to get started? Take the time to go through 
 the tutorials. Learn about each GUI component, RTKs, and 2D navigation 
 in the Espresso tutorial. Learn about building OSGi compliant applications 
 in the DeviceTop tutorial. 
 
Another great resource to learn about Java basics and building 
 apps for iTV, is the Java/iTV 
 Course. Get up-to-speed by reading the lectures and labs at your own 
 pace. 
 
 
ESPIAL SUITE FOR TV, Community Edition
 
 
The Espial Suite for TV, Community Edition is a 100% Java 
 application environment that sits independently from the operating system 
 and JVM on the upper layer of a STB software stack allowing developers 
 to build graphically rich applications that run in a TV set-top box environment. 
 It includes Espial DeviceTop, an operating environment, and Espial Espresso, 
 a lightweight GUI toolkit. 
 
 DOWNLOAD 
 WINDOWS
 DOWNLOAD 
 PURE JAVA
 
Espial DeviceTop 
 Tutorial for TV
 Espial Espresso Tutorial 
 for TV
 DeviceTop 
 Discussion Forum
 Espresso 
 Discussion Forum
 
 
 
iTV Development Platform 
 
 
This iTV development platform supports a subset of the DVB-MHP 
 specification which allows developers to test iTV applications, xlets,
 in a device scenario. We encourage you to download this MHP Application 
 Simulator if you are building iTV applications.
 
DOWNLOAD
 Learn how 
 to build iTV apps in the Java/iTV Course!
 
 
 
ESPIAL SUITE FOR DEVICES, Community Edition
 
The Espial Suite for Devices, Community Edition is a 100% 
 Java application environment that sits independently from the operating 
 system and JVM on the upper layer of an internet-enabled device stack 
 allowing developers to build graphically rich applications that run on 
 a smart Internet device. It includes Espial DeviceTop, an operating environment, 
 and Espial Espresso, a lightweight GUI development toolkit.
 
DOWNLOAD 
 WINDOWS
 DOWNLOAD PURE JAVA
 
Espial 
 DeviceTop Tutorial for Devices
 Espial Espresso Tutorial 
 for Devices
 DeviceTop 
 Discussion Forum 
 Espresso 
 Discussion Forum
 
 
 
Espial Espresso™
 
Espial Espresso™, a 100% Java, lightweight GUI development 
 toolkit, simplifies the creation of customized, graphically rich, Java-based 
 applications and services for resource-constrained environments. Espresso 
 3.54 is specifically for devices and Espresso 4.01 is specifically for 
 iTV.
 
Download Espial 
 Espresso 3.54 for Devices
 Tutorial on Espial Espresso 
 3.54 for Devices
 
Download Espial 
 Espresso 4.02 for TV
 Tutorial on Espial Espresso 
 4.01 for TV
 
 
 
Espial Escape™
 
Espial Escape™ 4.8 is the first 100% Java browser SDK 
 to offer a scalable configuration matching the memory requirements of 
 a wide range of resource-constrained devices. With support for key Internet 
 standards (including HTTP, HTTPS, SSL, HTML4.0, XML, XSLT, JavaScript 
 and CSS), multimedia, and iTV features like fit-to-screen-width, minimum 
 font sizes, zoom controls and pointerless navigation, Escape provides 
 a full-featured browsing experience with a small core footprint. 
 
We have built a custom UI for this version of Espial Escape, 
 which is to be used specifically for the Smart Device Developer Contest 
 3 and for people developing web content for TV. 
 
Download Espial Escape 
 for TV
 Content Developer’s 
 Guide
 (check out the section ‘Developing Web Content for Televisions’)
 iTV 
 HTML Content Discussion Forum
 
Other Online Resources to Help You Develop 
 Web Content for TV
 "The Killer 
 App is TV": Designing The Digital TV Interface
 Designing 
 for Television
 
 
 
 IDEs
 
We encourage you to use an Integrated Development Environment 
 (IDE) when using Espresso 3.54. There are a number of IDEs to choose from. 
 We recommend Sun's Forte for Java. 
 
Forte For Java (IDE) Forte™ 
 for Java™, release 3.0 software is an integrated development environment 
 (IDE) based on Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition and the open source 
 NetBeans™ Tools Platform. Written in the Java programming language, 
 it provides a superb environment for building and deploying web services. 
 
 
The Community Edition software is offered at NO CHARGE and 
 includes a complete and highly-integrated set of tools for teams of developers 
 building database-aware Web applications -- including a Web browser, a 
 Web server, and a
 relational database. 
 
Developers can build stand-alone applications, applets, 
 and JavaBeans™. 
 
Download 
 Forte for Java 3.0, Community Edition
 Forte 
 for Java Developer Resources
 
 
 
Notes on Tutorials:
 
 1 - Once you have downloaded and extracted the tutorial files, double-click 
 toc.htm to open the Table of Contents. The Table of Contents will allow 
 you to see what's available and let you step through the tutorial in the 
 proper order.
 
 
2 - Within these tutorials there are references to the remote 
 deployment of DeviceTop, however, this feature has not been implemented 
 in this release. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Devicetop.com 
 is an industry-sponsored community for Java developers building applications 
 for smart Internet devices, such as iTVs, wireless devices, automotive 
 infotainment systems, and Internet appliances. 
 
 
 We offer news and industry trends, Java courses, discussion forums, 
 tutorials, contests, free development tools, and a place to showcase your 
 killer apps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FREE 
 JAVA COURSE Interested in learning more about Java programming 
 for smart Internet devices? Start with the basics of Java, iTV or try 
 the Advanced Sessions in iTV.
 
WIN 
 A PRIZE First we gave away a BMW Roadster, then a flight 
 to 82,000 ft. Win prizes in our monthly contests and in Smart Device Developers 
 Contests.
 
 JOIN 
 THE COMMUNITY Before you rant in the forums, win contest 
 prizes, download free dev tools and upload apps, become a member of the 
 community.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________QUICK JUMP_________________________
 
Developers  |  Device 
 Manufacturers  |  Service 
 Providers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Devicetop.com Forums 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amiga - General 
 
 Amiga - Interfaces 
 
 
 Amiga - SDK 
 
 Contest - Ideas 
 
 
 Espial - Architect 
 
 Espial - Devicetop 
 
 
 Espial - Escape 
 
 Espial - Espresso 
 
 
 Game Programming 
 
 General 
 
 
 Handheld Programming 
 
 IDEs 
 
 
 iTV 
 
 iTV - HTML content 
 
 
 Java - Advanced 
 
 Java - Beginners 
 
 
 Java - Device Development 
 
 Java - General 
 
 
 Java - Jobs 
 
 Java - Personal Java 
 
 
 Java Contest 
 
 Java Course 
 
 
 Java Wireless 
 
 JavaOne 
 
 
 Linux - Embedded 
 
 OSGi/Networking 
 
 
 Site Feedback & Suggestions 
 
 Smart Device - UI Design 
 
 
 Software Design - UML 
 
 XML 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recent Applications 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 	 
 
 
	 
 25-06-02
 
 
	
 
	 
	 	
	
	
 
 
 iTV Timer
 
 
A timer utility to create time-based program
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 09-05-02
 
 
	
 
	 
	 	
	
	
 
 
 iTVPanel example
 
 
This is useful panel class for building iTV apps. Example included.
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 23-04-02
 
 
	
 
	 
	 	
	
	
 
 
 Espial Demo on SHARP Zaurus
 
 
Run latest Espial demo on SHARP Zaurus build-in JVM
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 23-04-02
 
 
	
 
	 
	 	
	
	
 
 
 Simple iTV Text Marquee
 
 
This is a simple text marquee that works with latest iTV reference implementation.
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 04-03-02
 
 
	
 
	 
	 	
	
	
 
 
 QuoteGrabber
 
 
Convert currencies and retrieve stock quotes live from the web.
 
 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 devicetop.com Poll (2002-7-5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tell us what you think and earn an easy 35 points towards this month's prizes!
 
 
 1) Will you get involved in Contest 3 now that we've opened it up to HTML apps?
 
 Yes, definitely
 
 Thinking about it
 
 Going to stick with my Java app
 
 What contest?
 
 
 2) Have you checked out Espial Escape in the Dev Tools section yet?
 
 Absolutely
 
 Plan to soon
 
 No, not interested
 
 
  
 
 3) Have you participated in one of the Java Courses at devicetop.com in the past?
 
 Yes, both of them
 
 Yes, the first Java/iTV Course
 
 Yes, the Advanced Sessions in iTV
 
 Wanted to, but didn't have time
 
 No, not interested
 
 
 4) Did you follow Wimbledon? 
 
 Love tennis, definitely watched it
 
 Read about it regularly
 
 Missed it completely this year
 
 Not into tennis
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Partners 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tutorials 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tutorial: Storing and Displaying Data in an Object-Oriented Fashion
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tutorial: Escape
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tutorial: DeviceTop 2.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tutorial: AWT and Espresso
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Device programming with MIDP, Part 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recent Articles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Wireless Arcade
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Handheld PCs Save Time in Field Surveys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Susquehanna Communications And Buzztime Entertainment Announce Strong Consumer Response to the Launch of the First Multiplayer Cable TV Trivia Game Channel in U.S.-Over 6,000 Digital Boxes in 16,000 Digital Households Registered And Played in First 30 Days.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ecrio Inc. Announces First Wireless Village Compliance of Client And Server Instant Messaging Solution-Company First to Comply Entire Solution on a Commercial Live Mobile Phone And Global Network
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Linux vs. Microsoft Windows? - Now Small Manufacturers Don''t Have to Choose
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Newswire 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Avoid pitfalls of Linux servers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nokia Backs cdma2000 1xEV-DV Approval
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Japan's DoCoMo, IY Bank to offer ATM access via cell phones
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nextel turns profitable; revenues jump
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bluetooth: Off And Running?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CREATE &#8226; CODE &#8226; UPLOAD
 
HOME l USER 
 l FORUMS l NEWSWIRE 
 l CONTEST l TOOLS 
 l APPLICATIONS
 
ABOUT DEVICETOP.COM PRIVACY 
 STATEMENT CONTACT US CONTEST RULES PARTNERS
NEED A JAVA BROWSER?
 
© 2000 Espial Group Inc. Espial and devicetop.com 
 are trademarks of Espial Group 
Inc. All other trademarks belong to their 
 respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
