
JADCentral : CodeCentral : Applets
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 Applets 
 
 
 Utilities 
 
 
 Multimedia 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 Database 
 
 
 Servlets/JSP 
 
 
 XML 
 
 
 Wireless Java 
 
 
 JUG Utilities 
 
 
 JavaBeans 
 
 
 Reference and Tutorials 
 
 
 Games and Entertainment 
 
 
 Techshowcase Downloads 
 
 
 Business Code 
 
 
 Unsorted Code 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	 Applets 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 Downloads 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-11-2002 
	 	
	 255 Magic Animating Buttons
	 Free easy-to-use effects menus. Just drop them into your web page - no coding knowledge required. Achieve effects like ripples, waves, rainbow animations, page folds and hundreds more. Then attach your hyperlinks and you have the perfect menu!
	 
	 
	 9 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-07-2002 
	 	
	 web designer
	 decription
	 
	 
	 15 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-22-2002 
	 	
	 iPOP Pro Menubar
	 Pop-up/drop-down java menu applet; framebusting/framecrossing ability: menus drop-down over frame edges without needing code in adjoining frames; deployable as top bar applet with drop-down submenus, or as a sidebar applet with pop-out submenus; high scalability: handles thousands of entries client-side; database-friendly; supports compressed indices; multiple icon support. DBCS.
	 
	 
	 22 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-11-2002 
	 	
	 MAN IN BLACK
	 IT IS VERY INTERSTING TO SE THIS 
APPLET AS IT LOOKS VERY FUNNY JUST SEE THE SOURCE CODE
	 
	 
	 106 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-30-2002 
	 	
	 Globalleafs -Java Applets
	 If you are trying to develop application using Java Applets, then please check this website, there are a lot of samples and projects included.
	 
	 
	 56 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-02-2002 
	 	
	 RGB Modifier applet
	 This applet shows how to modify each pixel's RGB components of an image using the Java2D API facilities. It filters one image by setting a fix blue component while preserving the original values of the red and green comps. This applet also shows how to observe the state of an image loading and how to perform presentation tasks depend on this state.
	 
	 
	 45 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-25-2002 
	 	
	 Metric Conversion Tool v1.8
	 An Applet that also runs as a standalone java application and allows easy conversion among various known metric units. It is small and handy and will suit your WEB-Site nice and easily.
	 
	 
	 55 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-25-2002 
	 	
	 Globalleafs -Java Complete Solutions
	 If you are looking to develop applications starting from core java to enterprise java then check this website http://www.globalleafs.com. You will find it useful in your daily programming.
	 
	 
	 23 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-12-2002 
	 	
	 Calculator / Plotter with integrated Input-Parser
	 This is a java applet (that may also run as a stand alone application) that allows the calculation of any mathematical expression. Expressions are entered in mathematical form. Besides calculations it also plots one-dimensional function descriptions.
	 
	 
	 57 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-02-2002 
	 	
	 Applet collection
	 Applet collection included:text effects,text displays,image effects,slide shows,image viewers,navigation and more applets.All applets comming with example and sample HTML code.
	 
	 
	 685 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-27-2002 
	 	
	 Horizontal Scroller
	 Horizontal Scroller Pro is an extremely lightweight Java applet that smoothly scrolls both text and images across your Web page. Use a text file to specify the contents of the scroller. You can include images and URL links in the text file. 
This Java applet is simple to set up, and includes ample documentation and a sample implementation. Set the font and color characteristics, scroll speed, and background color. Other features include an optional mouseover pause and highlighted URL links.
	 
	 
	 223 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-25-2002 
	 	
	 Apycom Java Menu Applets, Version 2.90
	 Apycom Java Menu Applets is a collection of highly configurable java applets that allows you to create cross-browser drop down menus, bars, and buttons for your Website. These applets provide feature-rich, fast-loading menu navigation systems to make it easy for your visitors to find their way around your site. Every applet in this collection has its own unique set of features that lets you create a website interface of any style and functionality. 
The apPopupMenu is an extremely powerful popup menu solution. In contrast to other drop-down menus available on the Internet, the apPopupMenu can overlap not only HTML content but also can pop up over frames, form elements, flash, and even go over the browser window. The applet supports an unlimited number of submenus and 6 button types. Using GUI wizard, available with the applet, you can configure the apPopupMenu in a few easy steps. 
The apMenu @ apMenu2 allow you to generate appealing menus with impressive mouseover and color-fade effects. Twelve different fade animations will help you to make your website eye-catching. 
The apTabMenu applet provides a friendly tabbed interface for your site, very familiar to most visitors. The applet gives you a quantity of tab types - from simple border tabs to Windows-like 3D tabs. 
The apButtonMenu and apImageMenu are applets for nifty buttons and menu bar. You can use both the 3-state images for each menu item, and the combinations of an image, text and tiled background. 
The apChoiceMenu presents a well-known pop-up menu of choices.
Apycom Java Menu Applets are very flexible, allowing you to configure colors, icons, fonts, sounds, background, and alignment to achieve an infinite variety of menu appearances and behaviors to fit your website needs. Apycom Menus include excellent documentation and about 50 examples to get you up and running in a hurry. 
Apycom Java Menu Applets are free, java source code is available.
	 
	 
	 310 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-08-2002 
	 	
	 JadeIDE
	 The Jade Integrated Development Environment is a straightforward development environment, which provides a GUI for the most important tools of the SUN JDK in order to ease the editing of source code, the compilation of Java classes and finally the execution of a Java Application respectively a Java Applet. Supported are the following functions: 
01. Jade Editor optimized for Java coding (positioning to method, template insertion, checkpoint management...). 
02. invocation of the JAVA API and project API documentation via a web-browser. 
03. invocation of the static code checker JiveLint from Sureshot. 
04. invocation of a HTML - Editor. 
05. invocation of external source code editors for a selected source file. 
06. creation and initialization of a new Java source file (class). 
07. creation and initialization of the HTML file to invoke a class as Java applet . 
08. deletion of an existing source file. 
09. invocation of the java compiler to compile a selected source file. 
10. execution of a Java program = execution of a class with a main() method as application. 
11. execution of a Java applet = execution of a class with an init() method as applet. 
12. cancellation of a running compilation or application/applet execution 
13. generation of the JavaDoc html-file for a specific project package. 
14. generation of a "StartClass" template 
15. dialog controlled generation of individual Java Dialog windows. 
16. dialog controlled generation of individual windows with a menu bar and menu items. 
17. archiving and restoring of project packages and single files. Any number of archives supported. 
18. Presentation of the actual content of the System Clipboard
	 
	 
	 86 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-25-2002 
	 	
	 Customize ICQ appearance
	 ICQ Plus allows you to change the appearance of ICQ. When installed, ICQ Plus integrates with ICQ by adding a menu item to the main menu. Choosing this menu item brings up a dialog which lets you configure ICQ's appearance in several ways. You can apply a predefined skin or create one yourself. ICQ Plus also allows you to change the appearance of individual features as well. You can change background images.of dialog boxes (BMP, JPEG, and GIF images are supported), change
the main menu image, set your own animated GIF or AVI file instead
of standard ICQ animation, and change the style of dialog boxes, buttons,
other controls, and individual dialog box settings. Skin files can be imported
and exported via ZIP file. ICQ Plus also has multi-user and multi-ICQ
support.
	 
	 
	 90 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-16-2002 
	 	
	 DocFather Standalone: Create search index
	 DocFather Standalone Edition 1.1 is the Java Search engine, which makes 
any HTML searchable. DocFather provides webmasters and developers alike 
with an excellent utility to make their Web Sites, html documentation or 
intranet/internet contents searchable. DocFather is completely 
server-independent and can be used online (Internet/IntraNet) or offline 
(local, Network, CD-ROM). 
This utility automatically creates a cross-platform full-text search and 
navigation index from a given set of files (HTML, TEXT, JAVA etc.). It 
can be used as cross-platform HelpSystem, similiar to WinHelp, for 
Applications or as viewer for HTML-based CD-ROM. DocFather contains it's 
own integrated browser (based upon JavaSoft's HotJava), which enables 
anyone to browse through documentation, make bookmarks, annotations or 
prints. DocFather was tested successfully in Windows, Unix, Linux and 
OS/2. DocFather instantly transports visitors or readers to the point 
they want to be and needs no additional components. 
DocFather simply consists of two components. The first one is the 
DocFather Index creator. This fine-designed graphical Java application 
searches the content files for titles and keywords and creates the search 
and navigation index. The second part is the DocFather Browser, a HTML 
3.2 viewer, which lets the user browse through the documentation and HTML 
files. This Browser, comparable to Microsoft's popular Winhelp, lists 
all indexes and keywords and enables people to search, explore and jump 
to contents with a click of the mouse.
	 
	 
	 143 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-07-2002 
	 	
	 Easy WebControls 1.0
	 Easy WebControls is a suit of Cross-Browser Dynamic HTML
components that provides a user- and developer-friendly way for
you to build cool web sites with easily customized, site
navigation tools containing rich set of features. It's a suite
of easy to use web components which will let you build your own
web sites with intuitive site navigation tools, without having
to write a single line of JavaScript, Java and DHTML code !
	 
	 
	 182 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-07-2002 
	 	
	 Tree Navigation System. 1.3
	 This java applet will provide a sophisticated Tree style view
to your web pages. It has many uses including, Menu Systems -
Map your whole site in one tree and give your visitors an
excellent navigation system. Data Display - Display
hierarchical type data in a tree and give it whole new
dimension. Help Systems - Organise your help text in a tree
structure to give users an excellent tool.
	 
	 
	 270 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-03-2002 
	 	
	 Building a Java Applet
	 Building a Java Applet is a full course on everything you ever wanted to know about Java applets. It takes you through the steps of Java development and applets, shows you how to load a display and image, and describes the Media Tracker class to synchronize image loading. It also covers offscreen image buffering, the image rotation algorithm using copyArea, threading and animation, graphic output methods, and applet parameters.
	 
	 
	 838 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-02-2002 
	 	
	 Spruce Biorhythm
	 a biorhythm drawing program. Just enter your date of birth and you will get charts of your current capibilities in physical, emotional and intellectual areas.
	 
	 
	 154 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-27-2001 
	 	
	 PixCalendar
	 Add a customizable picture calendar to your Web site using PixCalendar. The monthly calendar loads a text file that is used to customize button colors, images, and so on. Multiple months are supported; next and previous buttons provide navigation. The size of the window is 20 pixels wider and 200 taller than the size of any image you want to display. You must license the applet to remove the copyright message.
	 
	 
	 62 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-26-2001 
	 	
	 Java Password Applet for Web Page Passwords
	 protect your Web Pages. Without knowing Java, HTML or CGI you can
create an unlimited number of username password entries. The IMPORT
feature allows you to import usernames, passwords, and URLs from a .txt
file. You can set up the applet to send the user to a URL of your
choice depending on their password and should they fail to supply a
proper username and password, you can send them to a different URL.
This allows you to secure sensitive content on your website. It works
in frames and tables easily, and allows you to control border styles,
widths, and background colors. The applet previewer displays your work
as you create. You can also view the HTML code as you are working. A
shortcut helps you browser-test your work while you create.
	 
	 
	 572 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-20-2001 
	 	
	 Christmas applet
	 shows stars creating a Christmas tree. The applet uses image processing
to produce simple but nice effect. Easy to configure, with few
parameters to set is small enough (about 15k) to load fast even in a
slow Internet connection. When clicked the applet shows a window
pointing to my homepage.
	 
	 
	 122 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-30-2001 
	 	
	 SoftKnot(1.2 Unix) Internet-based File System
	 SoftKnot Corporation's Internet-based file system (iFS) enable you to access the files you need anytime, anywhere with just a Java-enabled web browser. iFS is an online storage management solution that provides you with a centrally managed, Web-based file transfer, management, collaboration, and distribution solution. It incorporates everything users need for effective file access and management, including: file synchronization, automatic resumption of interrupted file transfers, remote and local file search, and drag & drop capabilities. The iFS Administration interface lets you create separate, protected directories for each user or group of users, so you can securely support many different types of needs. 
With iFS, you have cross-platform access to your files, and an extensible infrastructure for easy integration. Both client and server applications are platform-independent, letting you use iFS with Microsoft IIS, Apache, or iPlanet Web servers, as well as PC, Mac, UNIX, and Linux clients.
	 
	 
	 42 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-30-2001 
	 	
	 SoftKnot(1.2 Linux) Internet-based File System
	 SoftKnot Corporation's Internet-based file system (iFS) enable you to access the files you need anytime, anywhere with just a Java-enabled web browser. iFS is an online storage management solution that provides you with a centrally managed, Web-based file transfer, management, collaboration, and distribution solution. It incorporates everything users need for effective file access and management, including: file synchronization, automatic resumption of interrupted file transfers, remote and local file search, and drag & drop capabilities. The iFS Administration interface lets you create separate, protected directories for each user or group of users, so you can securely support many different types of needs. 
With iFS, you have cross-platform access to your files, and an extensible infrastructure for easy integration. Both client and server applications are platform-independent, letting you use iFS with Microsoft IIS, Apache, or iPlanet Web servers, as well as PC, Mac, UNIX, and Linux clients.
	 
	 
	 19 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-30-2001 
	 	
	 SoftKnot (1.2 Win) Internet-based File System
	 SoftKnot Corporation's Internet-based file system (iFS) enable you to access the files you need anytime, anywhere with just a Java-enabled web browser. iFS is an online storage management solution that provides you with a centrally managed, Web-based file transfer, management, collaboration, and distribution solution. It incorporates everything users need for effective file access and management, including: file synchronization, automatic resumption of interrupted file transfers, remote and local file search, and drag & drop capabilities. The iFS Administration interface lets you create separate, protected directories for each user or group of users, so you can securely support many different types of needs. 
With iFS, you have cross-platform access to your files, and an extensible infrastructure for easy integration. Both client and server applications are platform-independent, letting you use iFS with Microsoft IIS, Apache, or iPlanet Web servers, as well as PC, Mac, UNIX, and Linux clients.
	 
	 
	 70 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-22-2001 
	 	
	 Easy WebControls
	 Easy WebControls is a suite of Java-based Cross-Browser Dynamic HTML components that provides a user- and developer-friendly way for you to build cool Web sites with easily customized site navigation tools containing a rich set of features that can organize Web site content in a hierarchical manner made up of pure DHTML and object-oriented JavaScript. Using portable, optimized, prebuilt DHTML widgets can save you a lot of time and effort, because the hard part has already been done for you.
	 
	 
	 76 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-25-2001 
	 	
	 Java v1.0 Scrolling
	 text applet for web pages
	 
	 
	 187 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-25-2001 
	 	
	 RMail v1.0: Java classes to send/receive mail
	 Java library and applets for sending and receiving e-mails. It
supports SMTP, POP3 and MIME v1.0. You can send text, html,
attachments, images, etc. You may also send alternate versions in one
e-mail (e.g. text and html). Includes applets and servlets for your
web site and source code on registration. For jdk 1.1, 1.2 or 1.3.
	 
	 
	 264 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-16-2001 
	 	
	 JadeIDE
	 The Jade Integrated Development Environment is a straightforward development environment, which provides a GUI for the most important tools of the SUN JDK in order to ease the editing of source code, the compilation of Java classes and finally the execution of a Java Application respectively a Java Applet.Supported are the following functions: 
01. Jade Editor with the capability directly to switch to a method defined in the class currently edited and to insert predefined Java code templates into the source code.
02. invocation of the JAVA API Documentation via a browser. 
03. invocation of project specific API Documentation via a browser. 
04. invocation of a HTML - Editor. 
05. invocation of external source code editors for a selected source file.
06. creation and initialization of a new Java source file (class). 
07. creation and initialization of the HTML file to invoke a class as Java applet . 
08. deletion of an existing source file. 
09. invocation of the java compiler to compile a selected source file. 
10. execution of a Java program = execution of a class with a main() method as application. 
11. execution of a Java applet = execution of a class with an init() method as applet. 
12. cancellation of a running compilation or application/applet execution 
13. generation of the JavaDoc html-file for a specific project package. 
14. generation of a "StartClass" template
15. dialog controlled generation of individual Java Dialog windows.
16. dialog controlled generation of individual windows with a menu bar and menu items.
17. archiving and restoring of project packages and single files. Any number of archives supported.
18. Presentation of the actual content of the System Clipboard.
	 
	 
	 93 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-15-2001 
	 	
	 DS Applets
	 DS Applets is a package of 87 cool Java effects (fire, snow, rain, lake, fog, water, lightning, bumpmap, lens, rotate, swirl, ripple, light, clouds, roll, tunnel, scroll, spheremap, cubemap, fireworks, cylinder, pageflip, stars, voxel, crossfade, dissolve, wormhole, explode, wobble, scale, pixelate, dust, blur, shear, filter, plasma, wave, fade, 3-D, explosion, blobs, warp and more). Each applet is interactive and includes a HTML code generator that allows to change parameters without any knowledge of Java and HTML programming.
	 
	 
	 340 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-15-2001 
	 	
	 JTV
	 JTV is a Java TV Web Cam and is a fully configurable small applet that displays your web cam pictures. With the JTV applet you can display your own logo, alpha blended logo in the top right hand corner just like professional broadcast TV. The JTV applet loads an image file and updates the image display at intervals you preset. JTV makes it fast and easy to create your own Java TV Web Cam. JTV is small and loads in only ~3 kb for MSIE. JTV requires no programming to load and view live Web Cam images.
	 
	 
	 141 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-11-2001 
	 	
	 PopMenu 1.0
	 Add fully customizable pop-up menus to your Web pages.
	 
	 
	 196 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-05-2001 
	 	
	 Java-Guestbook
	 A simple and cute guestbook written in Java.
	 
	 
	 557 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-05-2001 
	 	
	 eForums
	 Open source Java servlets-based software that enables geographically distant participants to share ideas and enhance teamwork via the Web. Allows project moderators to manage feedback and project discussions. Also allows users to subscribe to a group and select the option of having messages emailed directly to them.
	 
	 
	 141 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-04-2001 
	 	
	 Java applet streams text up the screen
	 a Web page will scroll text up or down the screen. Xstreamer is fully
customizable from the text color, to the scroll direction, to the scroll
speed. A full tutorial is included in the README.TXT file so you will
be scrolling text on your Web page in no time.
	 
	 
	 152 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-26-2001 
	 	
	 ad
	 Ad is a JAVA appelt written by Mark Qian. It displays an
user-specified scrolling window with sound. Images are switch
in a variety of styles (15 styles)in a user-specified period.
Each user-specified image can be assigned an URL so that Ad
open the URL when the corresponding image is clicked. It plays
a user-specified sound(an au file) when mouse cursor moves over
the applet area. A new style popup Ad is added. This is an
AdWare version.
	 
	 
	 78 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-18-2001 
	 	
	 My virtual organizer 1.0
	 A program which fulfills the role of a real organizer. It has a
built-in clock, calendar, address book and appointment list.
'MVO' is able to remind you of your appointments on the day
itself. There is even a search engine for the searching of any
entries needed. There is a password system to preserve the
user's privacy. There is even an area which you can mount your
favorite image! It comes with a help file for the layman.
Requires the 'Java Runtime Environment', which is not packaged
with this file.
	 
	 
	 237 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-17-2001 
	 	
	 RReport v1.1
	 Java library for printing reports. RReport supports preview, zoom, export to HTML, conversion of MSAccess reports to java, jdk 1.1 or 1.2 ... Source code available.
	 
	 
	 210 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-13-2001 
	 	
	 Crossword Express Java Applet
	 Crossword Express Java Applet allows you to add interest to your Web site with interactive crossword puzzles. This applet has many features, including the ability to handle puzzles in almost any language. Clues can be text, graphics, or a mixture of both, and clues may include an embedded link to any other Web site where the answer may be found. The applet can play puzzles generated by the Crossword Express compiler.
	 
	 
	 134 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-13-2001 
	 	
	 Attention Grabber: Web abstract art generator
	 Banner Attention Grabber Demo is a small Java applet that displays very
colorful and dynamic abstract art, and then (optionally) zooms in on
some text of your choice. It then recycles, like an animated gif, but
with a difference - Banner Attention Grabber never draws the same
picture twice. The art is totally randomized, you get different colors
and shapes every time. The full version does the same, except it zooms
in on a banner ad (gif, animated gif, jpg, etc.) of your choice, instead
of just text, and allows you to customize the graphics and specify a URL
to go to when someone clicks on it.
Loading of the applet is very fast because it is smaller than most
image files (8KB). The applet does not use bitmapped image files, all
graphics are computed within the applet itself so no extra loading of
image files is necessary. It works with all major browsers, versions 4
or higher.
	 
	 
	 63 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-28-2001 
	 	
	 Visual affects Applet
	 B-pack is a series of Java applets that render real-time visual effects on an image, including rain, fire, emboss etc. Free for non commercial use (with copyright notice displayed).
	 
	 
	 132 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-28-2001 
	 	
	 Dynamic Link
	 "An image slide show with variable transitions, links and audio capabilities. This high-powered Java display is ideal for Web advertising, image archives, or just cool effects."
	 
	 
	 85 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-24-2001 
	 	
	 New Ticker
	 Displays a scrolling list of news headlines, each linked to a URL that displays the full article. The scrolling can be set to slow, continuous or fast with pauses for each headline.
	 
	 
	 161 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-27-2001 
	 	
	 RBarcode
	 Java applet, servlet and class that creates barcodes for your java application or web site. It supports all major standards: EAN13, EAN8, UPC A, UPC E, CODE 128 (EAN128, ISSN), MSI, CODE11, CODE 39 (EXTENDED), CODE 93, INTERLEAVED 2 OF 5, PDF417 ... and more. It can export to a gif or jpeg file
	 
	 
	 101 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-27-2001 
	 	
	 Rtree Visual Designer
	 RTree Visual Designer allows you to create navigation menus (tree) for your Website without HTML knowledge. You will Visually create your menu/tree, and the program will generate the HTML code for your web site. The application uses the applet RTree.
The applet Rtree is able to create several types of navigation menus for web sites; horizontal, vertical, menus, dropdown and user defined.
The menu can be read from the applet parameters in the HTML page or from a file in the serve
	 
	 
	 134 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-07-2001 
	 	
	 Ultimate Button Bar 2
	 The Ultimate Button Bar 2 is an powerful Java 1.1 applet for creating buttons, button bars, menus, and other types of controls for web pages.Among the many features supported by the applet are: button animations, button sounds, mixed font support, "Tip text," horizontal or vertical orientation, and special image processing effects.In addition to functioning as an advanced button creation tool, the applet also provides an extensive JavaScript interface that allows it to interact with Dynamic HTML. JavaScript can also be used to create or change button displays "on-the-fly" to customize buttons for specific visitors.The applet's comprehensive documentation is provided in HTML format, and 40 fully functional examples are included.
	 
	 
	 250 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-04-2001 
	 	
	 RChart 1.0
	 Java class library and applet for charting. It support more than 10 different types of charts for jdk 1.1 and 1.2. Source code is also available.
	 
	 
	 155 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-17-2001 
	 	
	 ET Applet Collection
	 Small: The applets are small. They do only what they should and they do it well.
 
Fast: The applets are fast. Every effort is made for quick loading.
 
Flexible: Some of the applets support over 40 different parameters and still the code is very compact.
 
Complete: This collection of applets tries to satisfy your basic needs for applets. Several new applets are planned.
 
Tested: All applets are tested on MAC, UNIX and PC with various versions of both Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer (ranging from Netscape 2 to the latest releases).
	 
	 
	 228 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
