
Don's Java Central - Java Developer's Workshop
Java Developer's Workshop
 
This page is intended to be an interactive resource for Java
programmers.
 e-mail me if you have
a Java Question you would like to ask or a Java Tip
you can contribute, and I will add it to the page! I will also be
monitoring the comp.lang.java forums and adding tips of my own to
this page. 
Java Classes
 
- Netscape Internet Foundation Classes - 
 Netscape Internet Foundation Classes
 
- Acme Java Classes - 
 Acme Java Classes for lots of things (Web crawling, encryption, and lots of other utility classes)
 
- Cooper & Peters, Inc. - 
	 Take a look at these outstanding Java controls. They are outstanding, but they cost money.
	You can see lots of great demos here. 
 
- Java Foundation Classes - 
 The Java Foundation Classes (JFC)
 
- List the classes that come with Visual Cafe here...
 
 
- JavaSoft developer resources:
 
 
- The Java Language Tutorial.
 
- Java 1.0.2 API Documentation.
 
- Java 1.1 API Documentation.
 
- Download the Java Development Toolkit 1.0.2.
 
- Download the Java Development Toolkit 1.1.
 
- Get the JDK source.
 
	 
Java Questions
 
- Why can't I see Java applets with my
 Netscape 2.0 browser!? 
 
- Java security frustrations - What an
 Applet can and can't do... 
Java Tips & Techniques
 
- Java Developers Kit 1.02 Known Bugs
 list. You may want to check here if you've got a tough
 Java problem that no-one can seem to help you with. 
 
- Visual Cafe Tips
	 A user's guide for Visual Cafe. Full of great tips for using this visual development environment.
 
- Here's a table of Java event differences by browser:
	
	
- A quick way to create a String out of a basic integer type
 
- Creating your own layouts 
 
- If you are doing JavaScript programming, try typing
 "mocha:" at the Netscape URL window. You'll get
 a command line for JavaScript! 
 
- Applet
 using sockets example code 
 
- Ask
 the Java Pro has the answers to several commonly
 asked questions such as: 
 
- How do I get data into an applet? 
 
- How do I get data out of an applet? 
 
 
 
- Java Docs in WinHelp format! Click
	 HERE to download'em. This Winhelp file
 includes: 
 
- The Java API 
 
- The Java Language Environment white paper 
 
- The Java Language Spec 
 
- The Java Virtual Machine Spec 
 
- Java man pages 
 
- A Java FAQ 
 
- Some Java tips and tricks 
 
- A guide to Java resources 
 
 
 
- Ok, so I don't have very many tips here yet. Until I do,
 check out the Java Developer - How do I? link. It's
 got lots of great Java Tips! 
Creating your own layouts:
In addition to the 5 layouts that come with the Java SDK, you
can create your own layouts. SunWorld Online has an example of a
new layout called the PackerLayout. The PackerLayout provides a
geometry manager that arranges components by packing them around
the edges of the parent.
A Quick way to convert an integer to a String:
A quick way to create a String out of a basic integer type:
int i = 1;
String str = "" + i;
Things to check if you can't see the Java
applets: 
 
- Windows - You need the 32 bit Netscape 2.0 browser
 to see Java Applets. Unfortunately, the 16 bit Netscape
 2.0 browser for Windows 3.1 does not support Java. If you
 were waiting for a reason to upgrade to Win95, now you've
 got one!
 
- Macintosh - You need to download Netscape 2.0 Java
 beta 1 for the Macintosh (from Netscape) in order to run
 Java applets. Java was not supported yet when the Mac
 version of Netscape 2.0 first came out. 
 
- If you're still reading, and your browser still
 won't display Java applets, check under the menus
 "Options" -> "Security" and make
 sure that Java is not 'disabled'.
 
- If none of the above helped, or if you know of new
 information that I don't have here, send me an e-mail and
 I'll try to help you figure it out!
 Java Applet Security frustrations: 
Java Applets need to be secure so that rogue applets cannot
unleash viruses or perform other nasty operations on the
end-user's computer. Unfortunately, this is causing me much
frustration as I try to write useful Java Applets. 
 
- A Java Applet can't read or write files on the client,
 unless loaded via "file loader". Netscape
 always loads applets via "applet loader". I can
 definitely see why writing files to the client's computer
 needs to be restricted, but I think there needs to be
 some mechanism where trusted Applets can write to the
 client computer. It seems that Sun has provided this
 mechanism, but Netscape decided to prohibit it for the
 time being. Also speak about signatures to verify
 "trusted applets"
 
- A Java Applet can't open a network connection to any
 computer other than the host the applet originated from.
 
- A Java Applet can't maintain a persistent state. This
 means the applet dissappears when going to another web
 server/home page than the one that called it, and that
 the applet must be downloaded every time it is run,
 instead of only when it changes.
There are many
 discussions on comp.lang.java about the security
 limitations of applets. For client side file access, the
 consensus seems to be that Netscape and other Java client
 designers need to give the user the ability to allow
 limited local access throught he client's file access
 system. 
 
A simple implementation, discussed many times, is for
 the browser settings to include a yes/no option for file
 read/write to a single local directory. The user
 specifies the directory name and allows or prohibits
 applet access to that directory, as the user chooses from
 time to time. The installation default would be no access
 whatsoever. A finer grained implementation might permit
 the user to enable reading and writing separately, and
 perhaps even specify multiple directories rather than a
 single location. 
 
For more details on Java Applet security, see Sun's Java
 Security FAQ. 
| Home | Java Links | Workshop | Java Applets | Java News | Other Links | E-Mail | 
 
Don's Java Central /
donc500@earthlink.net / © 1996 Don Campbell 
Established Feb 7, 1996 
