
Hoskinson's Rotating Ad Banner Applet
 
 
 
 
 
JResources.com Channels
 
 
(Download the Java source code for the JResources.com applet collection)
 Hoskinson's Rotating Ad Banner Applet 
 
 
 
Home
 
Introduction
Search
Discussion Forums
Disclaimer
License
Feedback
 
Applets
 
Ad banner
Ticker
Hyperlinked ticker
Vertical scroller
Hyperlinked banner
Button menu
Web site shortcuts
Animator
Digital clock
Growing text
Rainbow text
RGB calculator
 
Servlets
 
JDBC Connector Servlet
XMLDataGateway Servlet
 
Applications
 
Web server query tool
Simple text editor
 
MS Java Resources
 
GUID generator
Java NSLookup
Code-behind HTML (Pt 1)
Code-behind HTML (Pt 2)
 
Other Resources
 
JavaSoft
Gamelan
JARS
MS Java
Hoskinson.net
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Your browser is not 
Java-capable
Hoskinson's Rotating Ad Banner Applet allows you to display 
multiple advertising banners, in GIF, JPEG, or text format, each with their own 
hyperlink. With the Rotating Ad Banner Applet, you can:
 
- Display 
 multiple ad banners, in either GIF, JPEG, or text format.
 
 
- Assign 
 each ad banner it's own hyperlink and browser frame target.
 
 
- Specify 
 the time interval at which banners are displayed. 
 
- Specify a 
 custom background, foreground, and link color for the applet container. 
 
- Specify a 
 custom intro message (displayed while the applet is retrieving images). 
 
 
- Specify a 
 custom font for your intro message and text banners. 
 
- Specify an 
 optional 3D border size. 
 
- Package 
 your image files with the Applet byte code files into a Java Cabinet file, if 
 desired, to speed download for your Microsoft Internet Explorer 3.0x users. 
 
This is what the mark-up looks like to implement the Rotating Ad
Banner applet in your HTML page (Note: this assumes that adBanner_andyhosk.class is in the same directory as it's parent HTML page). The parameters, by the 
way, correspond to the instance that is running on this page right now: 
 
 
Your browser is not Java-capable
 
 
 Parameter 
 
Default Value 
 
Possible Values 
 
 
 images 
 Hoskinson's Rotating Ad Banner Applet 
 A 
 carat ("^") delimited string representing the file names of the ad 
 banners. The image files must originate from the same host as the
 applet, and must be relative to the applet's codebase (The "codebase" is the
 directory in which adBanner_andyhosk.class 
 is located on your web server).
 Additionally, the images must be valid .GIF or JPEG files. Please note that the number of
 images will normally match the number of links. 
If desired,
 you may specify a line of text to be displayed instead of an image file. To implement
 this, type the line of text to be displayed instead of an image file name. Use a tilde (~)
 character to specify a line break, if desired. 
 
For example, if you wanted the applet to display a JPEG file, a GIF
 file, a line of text (with a line break), and then another GIF file, your mark-up would
 look like this: 
 
 
 
 
 links 
 http://members.aol.com/andyhosk/ 
 A 
 carat ("^") delimited string representing the URLs that are loaded when 
 their respective banner is clicked. These URLs can be either 
 absolute or relative URLs. If you want to use a relative URL, your URL 
 should be relative to the URL of the document in which the applet is 
 running. If you do not want a given banner to link to anything, type null 
 instead of a URL.
Please ensure that the number of links match the number of images (banners).
 If there is a mismatch between the number of banners and the number of links, the applet
 will use the first URL encountered as the hyperlink for all banners (this action will be
 documented in the Java log). 
 
If you prefer that all banners link to one URL, you may assign only
 one URL to the links parameter. 
 
 
 targets 
 _self for all banners 
 This 
 is anoptional parameter representing the target
 browser windows in which the aforementioned URLs are loaded when their respective banner
 is clicked. You can use this parameter in one of three ways: 
 
- Omit 
 this parameter in it's entirety. If this parameter
 is not present, the TARGET attribute will default to _self (the current browser
 window or frame) for all hyperlinks. 
 
- Specify one (and only one) frame target. All hyperlinks
 will default to this frame target. Allowable values include _top (the top level
 browser window), _self (the current browser window or frame), _blank (a new
 browser window), or the name of any open browser frame. 
 
- Specify a carat ("^") delimited string representing 
 the target browser windows in which the aforementioned URLs are loaded 
 when their respective banner is clicked. Allowable values include _top (the top level browser
 window), _self (the current browser window or frame), _blank (a new browser window), or the name of 
 any open browser frame. If you use this option, the number of 
 targets must match the number of images and URLs. If there is a mismatch between
 the number of banners and the number of targets, the applet will use the first target
 encountered as the target for all banners (this action will be documented in the Java
 log). 
 
 
 
 
 time_interval 
 3000 (3 seconds) 
 Time delay between banners, in milliseconds; for all intents and
 purposes, represents the speed at which the applet scrolls through the ad banners. 
 
 
 bgcolor 
 white 
 The 
 applet's background color. This is an optional parameter. If 
 omitted, it defaults to white. Legal values include white, black, red, 
 blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink, 
 orange, or an integer representing the RGB value (See Note 
 Below). 
 
 
 fgcolor 
 black 
 The 
 applet's foreground color. This is an optional parameter. If 
 omitted, it defaults to black. Legal values include white, black, red, 
 blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink, 
 orange, or an integer representing the RGB value (See Note 
 Below). 
 
 
 introMessage 
 Shareware version: "Loading Hoskinson's Ad Banner
 Applet" 
Registered version: "Initializing
 Applet...Please Stand By" 
 This is the message displayed by the applet while it is loading
 images. Use a tilde (~) character to specify a line break, if desired. 
 
 
 fontname 
 Arial 
 The name of the font to be used for all text messages (to include
 the intro message and any text banners). Legal values include any installed font. If the
 font you have specified does not exist on the remote client's machine, the client will use
 its default font (usually Courier). 
 
 
 fonttype 
 bold 
 The aforementioned font's style. Legal values include plain, bold,
 or italic. 
 
 
 fontsize 
 12 
 The aforementioned font's point size. 
 
 
 linkcolor 
 Defaults to the value of fgcolor 
 The 
 "hot spot" color to which the applet container border (and each text 
 banner) changes when the mouse is moved over the applet container. Legal 
 values include white, black, red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, 
 darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink, orange, or an integer representing the RGB 
 value (See Note Below). 
 
 
 border 
 0 (no border) 
 An integer specifying the width (in pixels) of the applet
 container's border. 
 
Background and Foreground Color Attributes 
Most people will find the thirteen basic colors sufficient. However,
you can set the background and foreground color of the applet to any one of the 16+
million colors in the 24 bit RGB (Red-Green-Blue) spectrum. But first, you must calculate
the value of your custom color. To facilitate this, please use this calculator. 
To use this 
applet, download the following three files: 
Download adBanner_andyhosk.class
Download destination.class (adBanner_andyhosk.class
uses this file, and both files should be placed in the same directory). 
Download adBanner_lib.class
(adBanner_andyhosk.class uses this file, and both files should be placed in the
same directory). 
 
 
Copyright © 1996-99, JResources.com. All rights
 reserved.
Download the Java source code for the JResources.com applet collection
 
 
 
 
