	
	 WDVL: Methods
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
	FREE
 Newsletter
	
	
	
	
 
 
	
	 
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
	
	Hot Topics 
	
	
	 JavaScript
	 
	
	
	 HTML
	 
	
	 CSS
	 
	
	 DHTML
	 
	
	 ASP
	 
	
	 XML
	 
	
	
find a web host with:
 CGI Access
 Database Support
 NT Servers
 UNIX Servers
 Telnet Access
advanced search
 
 
	
	 WebDev Network 
	 
	
	
 FlashKit
 Gif.com
 Java Boutique
 JavaScript.com
 JavaScript Source
 WebDevJobs
 JustSMIL
 ScriptSearch
 SMW
	 VoiceXML Planet
	 Web Hosts
 WDJ
 WDVL
 WebDeveloper.com
 WebReference.com
 XMLFiles.com
	 
	
	 e-commerce 
	 
	
	
	Be a Commerce Partner
For CGI Scripts
Find Annual Reports
EMedia Mag Free Sub
Send a Press Release
Free DNS Offer
For Web Graphics
Find A Web Developer
FlashMX Tools/Bundles
Software Store
Comparison Shopping
	 
	
	internet.com
	 
	
	 Internet News
	 Internet Investing
	 Internet Technology
	 Windows Internet Tech.
	 Linux/Open Source
	 Web Developer
	 ECommerce/Marketing
	 ISP Resources
	 ASP Resources
	 Wireless Internet
	 Downloads
	 Internet Resources
	 Internet Lists
	 International
	 EarthWeb
	 Career Resources
	 Search internet.com
	 Advertise
	 Corporate Info
	 Newsletters
	 E-mail Offers
	
	 
 
 
	
	
	 
	Methods	
What are the applet methods?
A method is a program structure consisting of variables and statements that can receive parameters and may return one value. A method may have local variables and it may use member variables. Method parameters are defined, with their data type, in the method argument list. Methods must have a return type. If no data is returned from a method it must be specified as "void". In the Contact applet the handleEvent() and action() methods are both boolean methods. All the other methods in the Contact applet are void. Methods have numerous access specifiers and modifiers that are well documented
here.
The browser controls the applet's behavior by executing four standard applet methods named:
init(), start(), stop(), and destroy(). An applet requires the initialization code to be placed in the init() method, which is the first method called by the browser to get things going. An applet may optionally override the other three methods in order to perform functions at certain times in the lifecycle of the applet as listed in the table below.
 
Method Name 
Executed by browser when an HTML document that contains the applet: 
Init() 
Is loaded by the browser 
Start() 
Is displayed by the browser or revisited and displayed 
Stop() 
Is closed by browser or the browser is shut down. 
Destroy() 
After stop 
In the Contact applet we have included a System.out.println() statement in these methods. This print statement illustrates the sequence of events as initiated by the browser. The output from these print statements is written into the Java console. The Java console is just a file on your computer. Its name and directory depends on the operating system and browser you are using. If you are using Windows 95 and Netscape Navigator the Java console is available under the Options menu and accessed under the option Show Java Console. If your using Windows 95 and Microsoft Internet Explorer the Java console is located in a file called javalog.txt which may be in the \Windows\Java\ directory. Under Microsoft Internet Explorer to see the javalog.txt file you have to shut down your browser first then use a text editor to look at the file. You may need to consult your browser help screens to locate the Java console on your specific operating system.
init()
The browser starts execution of an applet with the init() method. The Contact applet's init() method has two statements designScreen(); and readParam();. These methods are called without passing parameters or receiving returned values. The statements within both of these methods could have been coded in the init() method itself.
 
 
 
 
- Introducing Java (TM) - Your First Applet
- What is a Java Applet?
- What are the Java Language Terms?
- What is the structure of an applet program?
- What are member variables?
- What are the applet methods?
- How do you create a graphical user interface?
- How is data supplied to a Java applet?
- How are user events managed?
- How to start programming Java applets?
 
 
	Up to =>
	Home
 / Authoring / Java / Intro
	Copyright 2002 INT Media Group, Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
	Legal Notices, 
	
	Licensing,
	Reprints,
	 &
	 
	 Permissions, 
	 
	 Privacy Policy.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
