
Don's Java Central - What is Java?
What is Java?
"Java is a simple, object-oriented, multi-threaded,
garbage-collected, secure, robust, architecture-neutral,
portable, high-performance, dynamic programming language."
-- This quote is from Arthur van Hoff, author of the Java
compiler.
Now, what does he really mean by all that? Java is an exciting
new language that solves some interesting problems that plague
distributed computing environments. Java has the potential to
transform the Internet from an information delivery medium to an
interactive computing environment. 
 
 Java Features 
 
 
- Cross Platform: Java is a cross platform language.
 The Java compiler compiles Java source code into
 "bytecodes". These bytecodes are then
 interpreted by a Java "virtual machine" that is
 written for the processor architecture the program is
 running on. This means that your Java Applet will run on
 any platform that has a Java interpreter. This kind of
 platform independece is essential for a heterogeneous
 platform like the Internet or even corporate Intranets.
 
- 
 
- Software Distribution: In the case of applets, the
 Java bytecodes are downloaded at run-time, so the user is
 always getting the most current code. This solves all
 sorts of software distribution nightmares that
 enterprises have traditionally had to contend with.
 
- 
 
- Moves processing to the client, and off the server:
 Today, any user interaction with Web pages is done by CGI
 (Common Gateway Interface) scripting, which requires
 resources on the server. Many feel that this method is
 not robust enough to handle very large number of users as
 Web pages get more and more interactive. Java promises to
 move this processing to the client (user's) machine,
 which will free up resources on the server.
 
- 
 
- Security: Java was designed to verify and execute
 binary programs in a controlled environment. This
 protects the end-user's computer from viruses and
 security violations. Whenever a Java applet is
 transferred to the user's browser, it is subject to
 byte-code verification. This means that if the packet's
 size is changed along the way, the program will be
 aborted. This checking guards against Trojan horses and
 viruses being added to the Java bytecodes.
 
- 
 
- Easier to program than C++, and just as powerful!
 Here are some of the advantages of Java over C++: 
 
- 
 
- No pointers: The Java language passes all arrays
 and objects by reference but does not have an
 explicit pointer type. This prevents the
 programmer from constructing a reference to
 anonymous memory. 
 
- Automatic garbage collection - The Java
 interpreter manages the memory, it is not the
 programmer's responsibility. 
 
- C++ style Exceptions are automatically generated
 when dereferencing a NULL pointer, accessing
 outside the bounds of an array, or running out of
 memory. 
 
 
 
- Network protocol handlers: Support for HTTP, FTP,
 NNTP, MIME, and Sockets make it sort of a "network
 programming language."
 
- 
 
- JavaScript: Netscape wanted a scripting language
 that could give more power to HTML documents. So they
 teamed up with Sun to create JavaScript. It will run on any browser
 with a Java interpreter.
 
- 
 
 Java Pros 
 
 
- Java allows HTML writers the ability to take their pages
 from static information to interactive applications.
 
- 
 
- Java has broad industry support. It has been licensed by:
 Netscape, Spyglass, Wollongong, Microsoft, Oracle,
 Novell, Borland, Symantec, et. al.
 
- 
 
- Java runs on many platforms. Sun will distribute versions
 of the compiler and interpreter for the Mac, Solaris,
 Windows 95 and NT. IBM is working on versions for OS/2
 and Windows 3.1. Ports of the interpreter are underway
 for the Amiga, HP, Linux, NeXTStep, MIPS, and Silicon
 Graphics systems by third party developers. 
 
 Java Cons 
 
 
- Currently, Java lacks 'persistent' objects. Let's say you
 go to a Web site with a great Java applet and wait for
 several minutes for your browser to download it. The next
 time you visit the site, you need to wait all over again
 (unless the applet is still in your browser's cache).
 Persistence would allow you to store the applet on your
 PC the first time you download it, and only download it
 again if the applet has changed. This doesn't make much
 difference with some of the small applets out there now,
 but it will when Web sites start using Java applets to do
 more complex tasks.
 
- 
 
- Even though Java was designed to take some of the
 complexities out of coding in a language like C++, it did
 evolve from C++ and is similar in some ways. Programmers
 that don't want to learn C++ may not expend the time and
 energy to learn to code in Java.
 
- 
 
- There are no usage metering capabilites. For example:
 once everyone has Java Applets on their Web pages, and
 anyone can run them, how do you charge people for your
 software? Many believe hooks for this kind of processing
 needs to be built into the Java language.
 
- 
 
- Other areas of Java that need to be improved: 
 
- 
 
- Lacks multimedia objects. 
 
- Lacks a Visual Development Environment like
 Visual Basic or Delphi - although many vendors
 are working on this right now, including Borland,
 Symantec, Powersoft, IBM, Sunsoft, and many
 others. 
 
- No Font support or support for resources like
 icons, menus, etc. 
 
- No imaging support. 
 
- Only supports Sun's audio format. 
 
 
For more info on Java and Internet Software Development in
general, check out my "Internet Software Development"
link coming soon! I'll have a link to it here, and from the main
page.
In the meantime, take a look at Mike Loukides' article "Java: Not
Just Another Pretty Face" In my opinion, this short
article is a very realistic discussion of the capabilites and
potential of Java. It's well worth reading. 
You also may be interested in some clarification on Microsoft's
Internet Strategy. Read
this article by Brad Silverberg, Microsoft's VP Internet
Platform and Tools Division.
| Home | Java Links | Workshop | Java Applets | Java News | Other Links | E-Mail | 
 
Don's Java Central /
donc500@earthlink.net / © 1996 Don Campbell 
Established Feb 7, 1996 
