
Cassini Mission
Cassini Mission
When this page was started, it was under the assumption that not much activity would be happening considering the vast area the mission would have to cover. Seeing as there has been much activity, this page will be posted as a timeline.
Previous Updates:
New flight software loaded on NASA's Cassini
spacecraft strengthened the craft's ability to study Jupiter when it passes that planet.
Mission leaders and scientists decided to add
studies of Jupiter to Cassini's schedule. Cassini will be passing
within about 10 million kilometers (about 6 million miles) of
Jupiter to get a gravitational kick for reaching
Saturn.
 
Mission controllers transmitted software upgrades for the attitude and articulation control subsystem computer.
A second batch of software upgrades was also transmitted to
Cassini. It
will allow simultaneous use of Cassini's two solid-state data
recorders, plus other efficiencies in handling and transmitting
scientific pictures and information.
Using the recent upgrades during the Jupiter flyby will
provide an additional checkout of the software in advance of the
Saturn tour.
The images will be the first full-planet views of Jupiter
returned from a nearby spacecraft since those taken in 1979 by
two NASA Voyager missions, and Cassini has a higher-resolution
imager than the Voyagers'.
Mission scientists are especially excited about the prospect
for learning about interactions between the solar wind of ionized
particles streaming away from the Sun and the magnetic field
surrounding Jupiter. 
The Cassini spacecraft remains in excellent health after
earlier flybys of Venus and Earth, and passage through the
asteroid belt. 
The mission is a joint endeavor of NASA, the European Space
Agency and the Italian Space Agency, which provided the main
antenna and some other hardware components. It is managed by the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which is operated for NASA by the
California Institute of Technology.
NASA's Cassini spacecraft is beginning to return color
images of Jupiter as it nears the giant planet for a
gravitational assist toward its ultimate destination, Saturn. 
Two short movie clips of Jupiter based on images taken by
NASA's Cassini spacecraft show dynamic clouds in action on the
giant planet.
One clip, from Cassini images taken at uneven time
intervals over a five-day period in October, catches winds
swirling counterclockwise around Jupiter's Great Red Spot. The other clip shows the reverse side of Jupiter, and
smooths out the motion of the bands by including some
intermediate false frames between real images taken by
Cassini.
Jupiter's high-altitude clouds scoot and swirl in a brief 
movie clip assembled from images taken by NASA's Cassini 
spacecraft, now approaching the giant planet.
In the part of the spectrum used for the images, high 
clouds appear bright. Some small clouds brighten rapidly, 
suggesting strong upward movement, such as that seen in 
thunderstorms.
Another newly released image from Cassini catches the 
moon Io to the left of Jupiter and shows details in the Great 
Red Spot.
More information on the 
joint Cassini-Galileo observations is available at 
Flyby
A striking color picture showing mottled cloud patterns near
Jupiter's north pole begins a sequence of more frequent release
of Jupiter images from NASA's Cassini spacecraft as the craft
gets nearer to the planet over the next two weeks.
The highly volcanic moon Io hangs like a golden ornament
in front of Jupiter in one of the new images available from
NASA's Cassini spacecraft. The picture was taken Dec. 12.
With the huge, colorful face of Jupiter as a backdrop to
keep sizes in perspective, three of that planet's four major
moons are on display in new images for release today and tomorrow
from NASA's Cassini spacecraft.
Europa and Callisto are aligned with each other and the
center of Jupiter in a true-color Cassini picture available
online today from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena,
Calif., at
Jupiter
.
and from the web site of the Cassini Imaging Science team at the
University of Arizona, Tucson, at
Ciclops
NASA's Galileo spacecraft, which has been orbiting Jupiter
for five years, recently found evidence of a liquid ocean hidden
below Ganymede's surface. Galileo will fly past Ganymede for
another close encounter on Dec. 28.
The imaging team and JPL plan to release pictures almost
daily from now through Cassini's closest approach to Jupiter, on
Dec. 30. The images will likely include shots of Jupiter's moons
and rings, as well as its clouds. They will be available at the
web sites given above. Cassini is already close enough to Jupiter
to return higher-resolution images than possible with the
planetary camera of NASA's Earth-orbiting Hubble Space Telescope.
The flight team of NASA's Cassini spacecraft is running
tests on one of the craft's maneuvering systems to understand a
situation that caused the craft to switch automatically to a
second system.
Cassini had been using a trio of electrically driven
reaction wheels for turning itself in different directions to
point science instruments. One of those wheels was needing more
than the normal amount of force to turn it on Dec. 17, so
Cassini's fault-protection switched to a maneuvering system that
uses small, hydrazine-burning thrusters.
To conserve hydrazine for Cassini's main mission at Saturn,
science studies of Jupiter have been suspended, beginning today,
for at least a few days while the situation is analyzed.
The reaction wheels affect which direction Cassini is
facing, but not the direction of its trajectory through space.
Cassini began studying Jupiter in October in collaboration
with NASA's Galileo spacecraft, which has been orbiting Jupiter
since 1995.
Cassini has four reaction wheel assemblies. Three are
mounted mutually perpendicular to each other, and one is a spare.
When an electric motor accelerates a wheel, the spacecraft
rotates slowly in the opposite direction, obeying the physics law
of each action having an opposite reaction. Moving the three
wheels in various combinations can point the spacecraft in any
desired direction.
In a diagnostic test on Dec. 18, reaction wheel number two
still had higher than normal torque, the amount of force needed
to turn it, when it was accelerating to a speed of 50 revolutions
per minute, but it spun freely at speeds between 50 and 300 rpm.
NASA's Cassini spacecraft, approaching Jupiter, will tonight
resume use of three electrically powered reaction wheels for
controlling its orientation, because of encouraging test results
on that system, mission managers decided today.
Scientific observations, such as imaging, that require
pointing the spacecraft in specific directions remain suspended
in order to monitor the reaction-wheel system for a few days
while it keeps Cassini's main antenna steadily pointed at Earth.
Scientific studies that do not require pointing, such as
measurements of magnetic fields, are continuing.
An apparent drag on one of the wheels triggered an automatic
changeover on Dec. 17 to a different method of controlling the
spacecraft's attitude, one that uses small hydrazine-fueled
thrusters. Science studies that require pointing were suspended
Dec. 19 to conserve hydrazine for Cassini's main mission at
Saturn.
The craft's four reaction wheels -- three mounted mutually
perpendicular to each other and one spare -- were tested at high
speeds Dec. 19 and at slower speeds Dec. 20.
The reaction wheels control the direction Cassini is facing,
but not the direction of its trajectory through space. When a
motor accelerates a wheel, the spacecraft rotates slowly in the
opposite direction. Moving the three wheels in various
combinations can point the spacecraft in any desired direction.
An increase in wheel number two's torque, or the amount of
force needed to turn it, triggered the automatic switch to
thrusters and was detected again at low rotation speed, but not
at higher speed, in an initial test on Dec. 17. The later tests
found no above-normal torque at either high or low speeds.
Another possible cause may be reduced lubrication in the
bearings due to prolonged operation at low rotation speed. If
this is the cause, then the higher speeds used in the tests
appear to have restored the lubrication, and new operating
restrictions may need to be implemented about low-speed
operation.
Additional information about Cassini is available online at
Cassini .
Cassini is a cooperative mission of NASA, the European Space
Agency and the Italian Space Agency. JPL, a division of the
California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, manages Cassini
for NASA's Office of Space Science, Washington, D.C.
The European Space (ESA) this week released new information
about the communication link for its Huygens probe carried on the
Cassini orbiter. 
Current Updates:
Cassini Mission Status
December 28, 2000
NASA's Cassini spacecraft, approaching Jupiter, operated trouble-free since its reaction-wheel system was
reactivated for controlling the craft's orientation on December 21, 2000.
Increased friction in one of the electrically powered
reaction wheels, which are used to rotate the spacecraft,
prompted Cassini on Dec. 17 to switch automatically to a
different system, one that uses small, hydrazine-fueled
thrusters. To conserve hydrazine for Cassini's primary mission
at Saturn, managers suspended some scientific observations of
Jupiter, beginning Dec. 19. Observations that require pointing
the spacecraft, such as taking pictures, were put on hold. Those
that do not require pointing, such as magnetic-field
measurements, continued.
Cassini was put back on the reaction-wheel system for
controlling its orientation on Dec. 21, after testing indicated
that the above-normal friction had ended. However, the
spacecraft was kept in an attitude with its main antenna
pointed to Earth, and observations that required pointing of
scientific instruments remained on hold while reaction-wheel
operation was monitored.
Cassini has three reaction wheels mounted mutually
perpendicular to each other and a fourth as a spare. The reaction
wheels control the direction Cassini faces, but not the
direction of its trajectory through space. When a motor
accelerates a wheel, the spacecraft rotates slowly in the
opposite direction. Moving the three wheels in various
combinations can point the spacecraft in any desired direction.
A probable cause of the friction that temporarily increased
the amount of force needed to turn reaction wheel number two is
prolonged operation at relatively low speeds, which may have
reduced lubrication in the bearings, mission engineers say.
Running the wheel at higher speeds in tests later may have
restored the distribution of the lubricant.
As a precaution, Cassini's flight team developed
operational procedures for the reaction wheels that will avoid
low-speed operations for any significant amount of time, he said.
CASSINI MISSION STATUS
January 4, 2001
NASA's Cassini spacecraft continued collecting new
scientific information from Jupiter's environs every day since
making its closest approach to the giant planet on Dec. 30, 2000,
and kept studying the Jupiter system for another
three months while proceeding on toward Saturn.
Targets of observation by Cassini began with
Jupiter's atmosphere and rings. Between Jan. 5 and Jan. 12, the
moons Io, Europa and Ganymede were each examined while in
eclipse for information that their faint airglows can reveal
about those moons' tenuous atmospheres. Cassini
measured natural radio emissions from Jupiter's radiation
belts, a research project that also drew upon results from
Earth-based radio telescope observations by students in 25 middle
schools and high schools in 13 states..
The flyby of Jupiter, at a distance of about 9.7 million
kilometers (6 million miles), gave Cassini a boost from Jupiter's
gravity that accelerated the spacecraft by about 2 kilometers per
second (about 4,500 miles per hour) and enabled it to reach
its ultimate destination, Saturn, in July 2004.
Cassini Mission Status
Friday, June 29, 2001
Managers for an international mission to Saturn have
announced a revised plan to work around a telecommunications
problem and avoid loss of scientific data after the Cassini
spacecraft releases the Huygens probe to descend to the
surface of Titan, Saturn's biggest moon, in 2005.
The new plan will change the planned release date and
geometry for the part of the mission in which the Huygens
probe will parachute into the thick atmosphere of Titan. The
new date will be Jan. 14, 2005, seven weeks later than
originally planned. The plan will also position the Cassini
orbiter farther away during that descent.
After six months of analysis by the European Space Agency
(ESA)-NASA joint Huygens Recovery Task Force, senior
management from both agencies and members of the Cassini-
Huygens scientific community have endorsed the mission
modifications. The analysis was undertaken after the Huygens
probe telecommunications problem was identified last autumn.
The Cassini-Huygens mission was launched in 1997.
Engineers last year identified a design flaw in the Huygens
communications system. Without a change in flight plans, the
Huygens receiver would be unable to compensate enough for the
Doppler shift in radio frequency between the signal emitted by
the probe and the one received by the orbiter. A Doppler shift
happens when the distance between a transmitter and receiver
is changing, and Cassini originally would have been rapidly
approaching Titan during Huygens' descent. This would have
resulted in the loss of important data from the probe during
its trip through Titan's atmosphere.
When Cassini arrives at Saturn in July 2004, it will,
within the first seven months, complete three flybys of Titan
instead of two as originally planned. Then, in February 2005,
Cassini will resume the rest of its four-year prime mission as
originally planned, studying the planet and its rings, moons
and magnetic environment. The changes to the mission plan will
use about one-fourth to one-third of Cassini's reserve supply
of propellant. The reserve supply is carried for unforeseen
needs such as this and for possible use if the mission were to
be extended beyond 2008.
"This recovery plan will allow us to meet all of the
mission's scientific objectives," said Bob Mitchell, Cassini
program manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena,
Calif. "It has the additional advantage of giving us a close
look at Titan before releasing Huygens."
This week, European Space Agency Director of Science
Professor David Southwood and NASA Associate Administrator for
Space Science Dr. Edward Weiler gave the go-ahead for Cassini
and Huygens teams to implement the recommendations of the
Huygens Recovery Task Force.
To ensure that the pioneering probe returns as much data
as possible, the plan shortens Cassini's first two orbits
around Saturn and adds an additional orbit that provides the
required new geometry for Huygens' descent to Titan. Cassini's
arrival date at Saturn on July 1, 2004, remains unchanged.
However, its first flyby of Titan will now occur on Oct. 26,
2004, followed by another on Dec. 13. The Huygens probe will
be released toward Titan on Dec. 25 for an entry into the
moon's atmosphere 22 days later.
To reduce the Doppler shift in the signal from Huygens,
Cassini will fly over Titan's cloud tops at an altitude of
about 65,000 kilometers (40,000 miles), more than 50 times
higher than formerly planned. The new plan also calls for
several modifications to ensure maximum efficiency of the
Huygens communications system. These include pre-heating the
probe to improve tuning of the transmitted signal, continuous
commanding by the orbiter to get the best possible performance
by the receiver, and changes in the probe's on-board software.
Shrouded in an orange haze, Titan is one of the most
mysterious objects in our solar system. It is the second
largest moon (after Jupiter's Ganymede) and the only one with
a thick atmosphere. The atmosphere excites scientific
interest, since it may resemble that of a very young Earth.
