
JADCentral : CodeCentral : Database
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 Applets 
 
 
 Utilities 
 
 
 Multimedia 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 Database 
 
 
 Servlets/JSP 
 
 
 XML 
 
 
 Wireless Java 
 
 
 JUG Utilities 
 
 
 JavaBeans 
 
 
 Reference and Tutorials 
 
 
 Games and Entertainment 
 
 
 Techshowcase Downloads 
 
 
 Business Code 
 
 
 Unsorted Code 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	 Database 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 Downloads 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-11-2002 
	 	
	 Peeping Tom - Interactive SQL Tool
	 A simple Swing based application that implements a JDBC Interactive SQL tool.
	 
	 
	 8 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-10-2002 
	 	
	 PointBase 4.3 for Java
	 PointBase databases are 100% Pure Java RDBMSs. PointBase provides a reliable and scalable database for e-commerce, application servers, web servers and other Internet-based applications. The small footprint server design includes a multi-threaded architecture to ensure transactional integrity and performance under high transactional loads, row-level locking to minimize data contention and maximize performance, SQL security and encryption, multi-user JDBC connections and transaction management.
	 
	 
	 2 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-10-2002 
	 	
	 PointBase 4.3 for Mac OS X
	 PointBase databases are 100% Pure Java RDBMSs. PointBase provides a reliable and scalable database for e-commerce, application servers, web servers and other Internet-based applications. The small footprint server design includes a multi-threaded architecture to ensure transactional integrity and performance under high transactional loads, row-level locking to minimize data contention and maximize performance, SQL security and encryption, multi-user JDBC connections and transaction management.
	 
	 
	 1 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-10-2002 
	 	
	 PointBase 4.3 for Mac OS Classic
	 PointBase databases are 100% Pure Java RDBMSs. PointBase provides a reliable and scalable database for e-commerce, application servers, web servers and other Internet-based applications. The small footprint server design includes a multi-threaded architecture to ensure transactional integrity and performance under high transactional loads, row-level locking to minimize data contention and maximize performance, SQL security and encryption, multi-user JDBC connections and transaction management.
	 
	 
	 0 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-10-2002 
	 	
	 PointBase 4.3 for UNIX/Linux
	 PointBase databases are 100% Pure Java RDBMSs. PointBase provides a reliable and scalable database for e-commerce, application servers, web servers and other Internet-based applications. The small footprint server design includes a multi-threaded architecture to ensure transactional integrity and performance under high transactional loads, row-level locking to minimize data contention and maximize performance, SQL security and encryption, multi-user JDBC connections and transaction management.
	 
	 
	 0 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-10-2002 
	 	
	 PointBase 4.3 for Windows
	 PointBase databases are 100% Pure Java RDBMSs. PointBase provides a reliable and scalable database for e-commerce, application servers, web servers and other Internet-based applications. The small footprint server design includes a multi-threaded architecture to ensure transactional integrity and performance under high transactional loads, row-level locking to minimize data contention and maximize performance, SQL security and encryption, multi-user JDBC connections and transaction management.
	 
	 
	 259 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-16-2002 
	 	
	 Sav Zbase 4.1
	 Zbase is a Java-coded desktop ORDBMS application that supports dynamic structures, data integrity control, many-valued data, multi-level classification, class inheritance, and manipulation with multitudes of classes or relations.
	 
	 
	 42 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-09-2002 
	 	
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-026 - OCP (DBA - Network Administrati
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-026 comprises of 5 Mock Tests (over 295 Questions) on the latest pattern of OCP (Test 1Z0-026 : DBA - Network Administration). The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed 
Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 34 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-03-2002 
	 	
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-023 - OCP (DBA - Architecture and Adm
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-023 comprises of 5 Mock Tests (over 325 Questions) on the latest pattern of OCP (Test 1Z0-023 : DBA - Architecture and Administration). The salient features include High Level of Customization, 
Detailed Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 45 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-03-2002 
	 	
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-121 - OCP (Developer 2000 Build Forms
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-121 comprises of 5 Mock Tests (over 300 Questions) on the latest pattern of OCP (Test 1Z0-121 : Developer 2000 Build Forms 1). The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed 
Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 24 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-03-2002 
	 	
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-101 - OCP (Developer - Program Units)
	 OCP@Whiz-1Z0-101 comprises of 5 Mock Tests (over 285 Questions) on the latest pattern of OCP (Test 1Z0-101 : Develop PL/SQL Program Units). The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed 
Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 23 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-27-2002 
	 	
	 Dbf/Ntx reader for BCB v3.0
	 A set of simple classes to access dbf && ntx files from C++ programm.
Thread safe. Easy to use and modify, because sources are as small as
possible.
	 
	 
	 33 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 2-18-2002 
	 	
	 Sav ZBase
	 Sav ZBase is a Java-coded ORDBMS featured by Zigzag language - more expressive than SQL. The some peculiarities of Z database: many-valued data, multi-level classification, class inheritance, dynamic structure, data integrity control. 
Product consists of the next tools: 
1. ZInterpreter. A development tool for Zigzag language programming of a database. 
2. ZNavigator. Allows generating virtual tables via attribute names and values.
	 
	 
	 29 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-21-2002 
	 	
	 ReqwirelessDB
	 ReqwirelessDB is a fully-featured JDBC driver allowing J2ME/MIDP applications to exchange information using JDBC with a wide variety of back-end databases. ReqwirelessDB provides the familiar java.sql.* package on the J2ME/MIDP device that allows J2ME/MIDP applications real-time access to data housed in a relational database.
	 
	 
	 36 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-03-2002 
	 	
	 SQL Developer
	 SQL Developer is a SQL administration and development frontend with a graphical user interface. It is written completely in Java™ and runs on virtual machines supporting Java™ 1.3 or higher.
With SQL Developer you can connect to various databases using the JDBC interface.
Why use a lot of different tools to get access to your favorite databases? Use a cross database tool on any platform running Java™ with one frontend.
	 
	 
	 500 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-26-2001 
	 	
	 Java Personal Webserver v0.9 for Java 1.1
	 Java Personal Webserver v0.9 for Java 1.1 is a multithreaded web server
for Java 1.1 that implements HTTP 0.9. It can serve any file, but cannot
receive information from HTML forms nor implement CGI scripts. Java
Personal Webserver is a bare bones, fully functional server with source
code for those who want to extend this implementation or use it as a
reference. Since the Java Personal Webserver is covered under the GNU
General Public License, any portion that you copy must be covered under
the same license.
	 
	 
	 87 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-22-2001 
	 	
	 Library Management
	 It is an application for catering to needs of Book Libraries in schools and colleges
	 
	 
	 203 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-20-2001 
	 	
	 SDK for VC developers of MS Access Extensions
	 Adapter is programming tool to integrate MFC applications into MS Access framework.Adapter allows to assemble the "double body" application (bb-application). Such application consists of two sections: MS Access database and Visual C++/MFC application. Note that these sections are not container and component, as usual. They are two standalone applications! 
Nominally, MS Access part acts as mainframe application, while the VC part is sub application.
In fact, each of two constituents of bb-application operates in autonomous mode.
"Double body" application has united "circulatory system" (message loop/processing), and also common "skeleton": both parts share common MDI frame and client windows. BB-application appears in dual image: either as MS Access or as VC application. Its state depends on that what kind of MDI child window is active. In transparent mode, Adapter implements control flow needed for proper work of bb-application.
Adapter provides ideal conditions for the bi-directional exchange of the resources between MS Access and Visual C++ applications. 
Harnessing the power of MS Access for developing the MFC application (and vice versa) by using Adapter and its great usability will allow programmers to achieve maximum productivity and flexibility. 
Adapter provides VC/VBA programmers with very simple technique and requires no additional special skills (in particular, COM based programming).
Adapter is embodied in form of API consisted of few function used both inside VC project and VBA modules. Only one function is required to transform VC executable application into sub-application!
VC programmer develops the sub application as well as the general executable MFC MDI Document/View application. The presence of MFC-adapter in VC project does not bring about significant changes in the VC++/MFC programmer's usual style of work.
Adapter lowers the dev costs and skill barriers to creating all kinds of database related applications.
	 
	 
	 39 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-20-2001 
	 	
	 All Home Inventory
	 All Home Inventory is an easy to use database program that allows you to quickly build a permanent record of your property and its value. You may record descriptions of items, where they were purchased, when they were purchased, current location and value. You may also store digital images of the items in your database. Records of this sort could prove invaluable in the event of a theft, a fire or a natural disaster.
To begin entering information, simply click the Add New button and begin entering information. The Item Description field is the only mandatory field. All other fields are optional and may be left blank. The items that appear on the Category and Location pop down lists may be customized. Select Category or Location from the Maintain Menu to add or remove items from these lists.
The information you enter may be easily recalled and viewed on the screen, or printed through a variety of reports. A custom reporting option is also included, making it easy to create reports containing just the information you want. In your custom reports may be saved and then run at a later time. Context sensitive help (press F1) is available throughout the program.
	 
	 
	 210 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-02-2001 
	 	
	 OCP@Whiz - OCP (Oracle Certified Professional) Cer
	 The current version consists of 5 Mock Tests (300 Questions) on the latest pattern of OCP (Oracle Certification). The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 107 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-21-2001 
	 	
	 JDBC - XML - SQL
	 This application helps you to delink SQL statements from the Data access objects. You can mention SQL in XML. Also you may not write that tiring rs.get and rs.set commnands. Just provide the input class and output class and you are ready to go. The application is intelligent enough to pick data from your input class and populate your output class.
	 
	 
	 332 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-30-2001 
	 	
	 All My Auctions
	 All My Auctions helps you manage your auctions after the bidding ends. It automatically updates itself from your listings on eBay. It lets you know what to invoice, who has paid, what to ship, and more. It calculates all commissions, fees, and other financial information you need. All My Auctions does not force you to work in a certain way. Instead, you create folders and categories to group and report your inventory according to your needs. The program supports eBay USA, Canada, UK, Australia, and more. List items in US dollars and in other currencies. All My Auctions will calculate the proper fees and commissions for each. It will automatically convert eBay auction end times to your local time zone. It supports multiple seller IDs. You can even sell items for other people under the same seller ID and keep their financial information separate from your own. Evaluate the software now and make sure it works for you. If you decide to purchase, all subsequent updates are free. There are no other charges.
	 
	 
	 83 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-30-2001 
	 	
	 dB Organizer Deluxe
	 dB Organizer Deluxe allows you to organize and manage virtually any kind of information. ORGANIZER Module makes it easy to catalog, manage, and process your data. DESIGNER Module lets you create databases for your specific needs. Designer contains a large number of specialized data fields that will not limit your creativity when building Inventory Organizers, WEB catalogs/Stores, Collector Catalogs, Address/Contact Managers, Bookmark Organizers, Product Databases, Image Catalogs, PIMs, 'Your' organizers or catalogs.
	 
	 
	 237 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-26-2001 
	 	
	 Sav Z DBMS
	 Sav Z 1.3 is an object-relational database system in Java 1.2.2 bytecode
	 
	 
	 61 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-26-2001 
	 	
	 Catalog View Pro
	 Catalog View Pro is a Java database applet.
	 
	 
	 82 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-19-2001 
	 	
	 PoolMan
	 PoolMan can drastically improve the performance of your database-driven web applications. The software both pools and caches Java resources, with particular treatment of database Connections. PoolMan contains a utility capable of performing any database operation without requiring you to use the JDBC API, and works with any JDBC database driver.
	 
	 
	 186 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-19-2001 
	 	
	 MM MySQL JDBC Driver 2.0-pre3
	 A Type IV JDBC driver for MySQL. Small ( 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
