
Hoskinson's Vertical Scroll Applet
 
 
 
 
 
JResources.com Channels
 
 
(Download the Java source code for the JResources.com applet collection)
Hoskinson's Vertical
Scroll Applet 
 
 
 
 
Home
 
Introduction
Search
Discussion Forums
Disclaimer
License
Feedback
 
Applets
 
Ad banner
Ticker
Hyperlinked ticker
Vertical scroller
Hyperlinked banner
Button menu
Web site shortcuts
Animator
Digital clock
Growing text
Rainbow text
RGB calculator
 
Servlets
 
JDBC Connector Servlet
XMLDataGateway Servlet
 
Applications
 
Web server query tool
Simple text editor
 
MS Java Resources
 
GUID generator
Java NSLookup
Code-behind HTML (Pt 1)
Code-behind HTML (Pt 2)
 
Other Resources
 
JavaSoft
Gamelan
JARS
MS Java
Hoskinson.net
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your browser does not support Java.
This applet is a simple text animation which plays multiple vertical
scrolling marquees for which you can specify a URL and frame target to go to when the
applet container is clicked. You can also specify font, style, size, scroll delay,
scroll amount, background and foreground color, and mouse-over "hot spot" color.
This applet should run on any platform to which a reasonable implementation of the Java VM
has been ported. I have tested it on the following platforms: 
 
- Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.01/Win95 
 
- Netscape Navigator 4.04/Win95 
 
- Netscape Navigator 3.01/Win95 
 
- Microsoft Internet Explorer 3.02/Win95 
 
 This is what the mark-up looks like to implement the
 Vertical Scroll Applet in your HTML page (Note: this assumes that verticalScroll2_andyhosk.class
 is in the same directory as it's parent HTML page). The parameters, by the way,
 correspond to the instance that is running at the top of this page: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your browser does not support Java.
 
 
Applet Parameters 
(Listed alphabetically)
 
 Parameter 
 Default Values 
 Possible Values 
 
 
 alignment 
 center 
 The horizontal alignment of text within the applet container;
 "left" or "center" 
 
 
 bgcolor 
 white 
 The applet's background color. Legal values include white, black,
 red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink, orange, or
 an integer representing the hexidecimal RGB value (for example, the RGB
 value of the color white is "FFFFFF"). Defaults to "white". 
 
 
 cabbase 
 none 
 The name of the CAB archive used by Microsoft Internet Explorer.
 This is an optional parameter, but, if specified, the CAB file must be located in the
 codebase directory. If you are going to use the included CAB file, then this value should
 be "verticalScroll2_andyhosk.cab". 
 
 
 fgcolor 
 black 
 The applet's foreground color. Legal values include white, black,
 red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan, pink, orange, or
 an integer representing the hexidecimal RGB value (for example, the RGB
 value of the color white is "FFFFFF"). Defaults to "black". 
 
 
 fontname 
 SansSerif 
 Any installed font. Defaults to "SansSerif". 
 
 
 fontsize 
 12 
 Any valid point size. Defaults to 12. 
 
 
 fontstyle 
 bold 
 plain, bold, bold_italic, or italic. Defaults to "bold". 
 
 
 hotspotcolor 
 blue 
 When the scrolling text is associated with a URL, the scrolling
 text changes to this color when the mouse is moved over the applet container. Legal values
 include white, black, red, blue, green, yellow, lightGray, gray, darkGray, magenta, cyan,
 pink, orange, or an integer representing the hexidecimal RGB value (for
 example, the RGB value of the color white is "FFFFFF"). 
 
 
 licenseID 
 null 
 This value must be "VS2981121RAH". If not, an unlicensed
 shareware notice will be prepended to your scrolling messages. 
 
 
 linespacing 
 5 
 The number of pixels between lines of text. 
 
 
 scrollamount 
 1 
 The scroll amount (in pixels) of each animation frame. The
 smaller the number, the smoother the animation. Defaults to 1. 
 
 
 scrolldelay 
 20 
 Time delay between animation frames, in milliseconds; for all
 intents and purposes, represents the scrolling speed of the marquee (smaller is faster).
 Defaults to 20. 
 
 
 target0 through targetx 
 _self 
 The target browser window of a given URL parameter (see below).
 Allowable values include _top (the top level browser window), _self (the current browser
 window or frame), _blank (a new browser window), or the name of any open browser
 frame. This is an optional parameter....if a URL is specified and the target
 parameter is omitted, the target defaults to "_self." 
 
 
 text0 through textx 
 "Hoskinson's Vertical Scroll Applet Version 2.0" 
 The scrolling marquee text. The text will automatically wrap to the
 applet container's dimensions. To force a line break, use the "^" character as a
 token. You can have as many scrolling text objects as you want; Just remember to use
 the proper parameter name convention (i.e., text0 for your first one, text1 for your
 second one, etc.) 
 
 
 URL0 through URLx 
 http://www.hoskinson.net/ 
 The URL to jump to when the applet container is clicked, for a
 corresponding text object. This URL can be either absolute or relative. If you want
 to use a relative URL, your URL should be relative to the URL of the document in which the
 applet is running. This is an optional parameter....if you don't want a
 corresponding text object to link to a URL, simply omit this parameter. You can have a
 corresponding URL object for as many (or as few) of your text objects as you want; 
 Just remember to use the proper parameter name convention (i.e., URL0 for your first one,
 URL1 for your second one, etc.). 
 
When implementing this applet, please place the following files
(located in the same directory as this file) on your web server: 
 
- Microsoft Internet Explorer 3.x/4.x Cabinet Archive file: verticalScroll2_andyhosk.cab 
 
- Netscape Navigator 4.x ZIP archive: verticalScroll2_andyhosk.zip 
 
- Java bytecode files (for all other browsers): verticalScroll2_andyhosk.class, verticalScrollCanvas.class, verticalScrollCanvasNotifier.class, scrollObject.class, ScrollThreadListener.class.
 
Please Note: You must adjust the CODEBASE attribute of your
applet tag accordingly if these files are not placed in the same directory as the parent
HTML file.
 
 
Copyright © 1996-99, JResources.com. All rights
 reserved.
Download the Java source code for the JResources.com applet collection
 
 
 
 
