
Javalobby Forums - "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 75052 Members! 
 This
 website is gratefully dedicated to Allan Chasanoff 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Forums
 | Links
 | 
 Jobs | Members
 Only 
 
 
 
 Member Login
 
 
 Become a Member 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 Email Address: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Password: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 Automatically
 Login
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOIN NOW, IT'S FREE!
 Not a member yet? Join right now and enjoy the many benefits of
 Javalobby membership.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Participate in our discussion forums
 
- Download free software and books
 
- Receive members-only discount offer
 
 
 
 
 
- Receive up-to-date info via our newsletter
 
- List your products/services in our links directory
 
- Enhance your career at JavaJobs.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Click
 here if you don't remember your password and want it mailed to you.
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
 "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 »
 Forums
 »
 Javalobby Frontpage
 
 
 
 
 35 replies on
 4 pages.
 Most recent reply:
 Apr 17, 2002 1:34 AM
 by
 
 Scott Hazel
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 Reply to this Topic
 
 
 
	 
	
 Post New Topic
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 Search Forum
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Previous Topic
 
 
 
	 
	
 Back to Topic List
 
 
 
 
 
 Next Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 [ Go to: « 1 2 3 4 » ] 
 
 
 Print
 Friendly Format | Switch
 to map view format 
 
 Email
 Thread to a Friend 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Gregory Pierce
 
 
 
 Posts: 19
 
 
 Registered: Mar, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: mixed experience
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 5:49 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Well you're not going to find many major corporations suddely throwing their 420R's out the window. Solaris is a well known and stable Unix platform used for servers all over the world. IBM doesn't control that space - they share it with many others. Linux isn't only in commodity servers either. IBM has some heavy duty Linux servers that they actively sell as well. But its true that Apple for desktop UNIX makes more sense than any other variety of UNIX I've seen yet. The truly novice user who is barely computer literate can operate it just fine.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Gregory Pierce
 
 
 
 Posts: 19
 
 
 Registered: Mar, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 6:03 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 While I cannot agree with Steve entirely I agree with the sentiment. Writing Java code on OSX absolutely sickens me because I can't get to 1.4 and there are too many features in it that I need. The result? I use my Mac for everything but writing code and playing game. Thus instead of spending money buying a new Mac I have to throw this money into upgrading a PC that can keep up.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Ray Offiah
 
 
 
 Posts: 135
 
 
 Registered: Feb, 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: It may not matter ...
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 6:11 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shame that the Linux Community feels that way, but in the long run it may not matter.
After almost a decade, Linux has made almost zero impact on the desktop, whilst MacOSX seems to be attracting Linux, Windows and MacOS9 bods from all over. Chances are that MacOSX will be the dominant desktop UNIX clone five years from now. Wouldn't like to hazard a guess on the server side though.
The change in hardware doesn't bother most folk; this is a fairly minor issue compared to the loss of familar applications. One way round that is to use something like Connectix VirtualPC. If you have enough disk space and enough memory and a dual processor Mac, then you can run X86 Linux, Windows98, Windows2000, WindowsXP all under MacOSX in separate windows .. all at the same time.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Ray Offiah
 
 
 
 Posts: 135
 
 
 Registered: Feb, 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: they are similar but different
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 6:13 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sadly, Microsoft (and to some degree Sun) want the whole market to themselves, and they will go to any length to achieve that
Er .. yes. That's what commercial enterprises do. As long as they do it legally, then theres nothing wrong with that.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Ray Offiah
 
 
 
 Posts: 135
 
 
 Registered: Feb, 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 6:28 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No, Apple has not done what the Linux world has been trying to do for some time now. OSX wasn't free the last time I checked...
Well if the most important thing to you is that it's free, then Linux certainly fits the bill. Other folk value ease of use, and not having to fiddle with arcane commands to upgrade or install drivers and the like.
It doesn't have widespread hardware support...
Your average bod only tends to use one computer at a time. And as I pointed out, it's pretty easy to make a Mac pretend to be a PC.
Apple needs to get in sync with Sun and release betas and final releases the same day as Sun. This is true for Linux (b/c Sun makes the JVM for Linux) and this is why linux is more appealing.
Well Apple has to go that extra mile, which is why it takes longer. Unfortunate, but true.
Whilst Linux users are happy to take a raw JDK and load it and configure it themselves, Apple's audience is made up of children, designers, writers and artists as well as techies; it's important that Java is seamlessly into the OS, so that regular folk don't know the difference between a Java app and a native Mac app. This is what Apple is aiming for.
The second reason is that Apple also makes improvements to the JVM, such as the ability to run multiple programs in a single JVM, and faster load up times. Apparently, Sun is talking with Apple's engineers with a view to incorporating those changes into their own stuff.
And I guess even techies like an easy life some of the time at least; perhaps that's why Gosling is using a Mac.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Mark J
 
 
 
 Posts: 160
 
 
 Registered: Jan, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: they are similar but different
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 7:45 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Er... no. The desire to completely dominate markets may be a part of US-style business culture, but it is neither healthy for the economy nor universal. And governments often do regulate monopolies, even if they came about "legally". Domination of the market by a single company is anti-free market and inefficient.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Ray Offiah
 
 
 
 Posts: 135
 
 
 Registered: Feb, 2001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: they are similar but different
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 9:24 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, but the "desire" to dominate is universal, and is a healthy business attitude to have.
If you do it illegally, then expect what's coming to you (or expect to be rewarded as the case seems to be).
If you succeed at it legally, then expect government to intervene if they feel such a monopoly is not in the best interest of consumers. Well, that's just the law.
But the desire to dominate is something I don't have a problem with. If Sun did not have a desire to dominate, then why would they bother. Just to get a warm fuzzy feeling? Somehow I don't think so ....
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Steve Benigan
 
 
 
 Posts: 62
 
 
 Registered: Feb, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 10:21 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 > No, Apple has not done what the Linux world has
> been trying to do for some time now. OSX wasn't free
> the last time I checked...
> 
> Well if the most important thing to you is that it's
> free, then Linux certainly fits the bill. Other folk
> value ease of use, and not having to fiddle with
> arcane commands to upgrade or install drivers and the
> like.
Free is not my aim but it is the aim of open source. That is what I meant. Linux distributions are by no means perfect but they are getting much better. For basic use, I haven't had to fiddle with anything (Redhat 7.2 with Ximian RedCarpet).
> Your average bod only tends to use one computer at a
> time. And as I pointed out, it's pretty easy to make
> a Mac pretend to be a PC.
1) Developers aren't the average bod.
2) I have to have multiple machines for testing purposes.
3) I can assemble a PC from parts. I can't do the same with a Mac. There's no choice. Personally, I'm willing to live with the small choice but commercially this doesn't fly. I write applications that are destined for servers with UI's for the desktop. Mac's do not offer enough options in terms of cases, redundant power supplies, backplanes, in case raid, etc. This is a problem. Also, for the desktop, Macs are over-engineered to be eye candy. I love them but pc hardware, while not always elegant, is cheaper and just as reliable.
> Well Apple has to go that extra mile, which is why it
> takes longer. Unfortunate, but true.
> Whilst Linux users are happy to take a raw JDK and
> load it and configure it themselves, Apple's audience
> is made up of children, designers, writers and
> artists as well as techies; it's important that Java
> is seamlessly into the OS, so that regular folk don't
> know the difference between a Java app and a native
> Mac app. This is what Apple is aiming for.
I agree. But they're marketing to the developers now so not having the slick installation (or lack thereof) is fine. By the way, Gentoo linux has Sun's and IBM's JVM ready as an installable package. But that's not a big deal anyway. Sun's JVM for linux is essentially an self extracting archive that you can put anywhere. You would have to set up the PATH and possibly a file association for executable jar files but that's about it. This is extremely simple compared to what you have to do for other languages...
> The second reason is that Apple also makes
> improvements to the JVM, such as the ability to run
> multiple programs in a single JVM, and faster load up
> times. Apparently, Sun is talking with Apple's
> engineers with a view to incorporating those changes
> into their own stuff.
This is a very good thing. Java lacks a sharable VM. There are hacks out there but nothing standard. It would be great if Sun can use what Apple has done and incorporate it into Hotspot and the Isolate JSR.
> And I guess even techies like an easy life some of
> the time at least; perhaps that's why Gosling is
> using a Mac.
Yes, this is true and it was true for me as well. But I got fed up with the lag time in JVM releases and switched to the cutting edge platform (windows and solaris at the time but now linux as well). I don't quite believe Gosling. He has several machines at his disposal and if he's in fact doing development, I doubt it's exclusive to the mac. Last I heard, he was doing some 2D/3D work as a plugin to Forte. If so, it may make sense to use a mac... but then again J2SE 1.4 has a revamped 2D engine and the new Blade servers are supposed to ship with a MAJC processor so one would think that that server would be more suited than the mac.
Well, time will tell. I can't use the Mac b/c 1.4 isn't available. Even if it was, I already have multiple pc machines as do most java developers. We need stronger reasons to switch.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Fred Barney
 
 
 
 Posts: 13
 
 
 Registered: Jan, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Java on the client, same as it ever was
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 10:22 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What amazes me is that even on one of the best-looking UIs ever made, Sun still manages to exert their Midas-like uglymaking influence. Fire up Java Web Start from /Applications/Utilitities, and it's the usual utterly crap Java UI: controls clobber each other, menu items are under the wrong menu, resizing doesn't repaint properly, etc etc. Is there something in the water at Sun that just makes them incapable of seeing how amateurish their stuff looks?
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Jesper Juul
 
 
 
 Posts: 10
 
 
 From: Copenhagen
 
 Registered: Sep, 1999
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: Java on the client, same as it ever was
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 2, 2002 12:08 PM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 But at least it's the same on all platforms 
> What amazes me is that even on one of the
> best-looking UIs ever made, Sun still manages to
> exert their Midas-like uglymaking influence. Fire up
> Java Web Start from /Applications/Utilitities, and
> it's the usual utterly crap Java UI: controls clobber
> each other, menu items are under the wrong menu,
> resizing doesn't repaint properly, etc etc. Is there
> something in the water at Sun that just makes them
> incapable of seeing how amateurish their stuff looks?
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This topic has 35 replies
 on 4 pages
 [
 «
 |
 1 
 2
 3
 4
	 |
 »
 ]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Previous Topic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Top
 of the page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Next Topic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Javalobby
 discussion forums
 powered by
 Jive 
 Forums 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About 
 Us | Volunteers Wanted | Terms 
 of Use | Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
