
JADCentral : Technology Showcase
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEA Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq: BEAS) is the world's leading application infrastructure 
 software company, with nearly 12,500 customers around the world, including 
 the majority of the Fortune Global 500. BEA and its WebLogic® brand 
 are among the most trusted names in business. Businesses built on the award-winning 
 BEA WebLogic Enterprise Platform&#153; are reliable, highly scalable, and 
 poised to bring new services to market quickly. BEA's platform is the de 
 facto standard for more than 2,100 systems integrators, independent software 
 vendors (ISVs) and application service providers (ASPs) to provide complete 
 solutions that fast-track and future-proof businesses for high growth and 
 profitability. 
 
 
	Interested in becoming a JADCentral Technology Member? Become a Technology Member Now!
	
 For more details, please either send an email to jadcentral@pointbase.com or call our JADCentral administrator at 650-230-7232. 
	
	
 
	
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	
	
 
 	
 	 
 	 
 	
 	
 	 
 	
	
 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 	
 	
 	 
 	
 	
	
	
	
	System Management
	
	Mobile and Wireless
	
	Productivity Tools
	
	Business Intelligence
	
	Knowledge Management
	
	E-Business
	
	System Integration
	
	Application Development Tools
	
	
	
	
	
	
	System Management
	
	
	
	Kada Systems, Inc.
	
	Kada Systems is rewriting the rules for mobile computing, enabling powerful, always-available applications on smart handheld devices. Powered by Kada's clean room Java Virtual Machine, Kada Mobile opens the door for more sophisticated applications, reliable connected/disconnected operation, and portability across smart handheld devices...
	
	
	
	
	Mediasolv.com Inc.
	
	MediaSolv.com's WAP and WEB based Personal and Group Information Management
(PIM & GIM) software provides anytime, anywhere access to E-mail, Calendar,
Contacts, File-Share, Chat and other features that include a Virtual Office Lobby
for public access and an optional desktop based smart agent application for
Online and Off-line access...
	
	
	
	
	Middleware Bridge, Inc.
	
	MB Timesheet system for J2ME/HTML/WAP/WML clients.
Java based software solutions.
	
	
	
	
	NSIcom
	
	NSIcom is the Leading Supplier of Java Virtual Machines to the Global Java Based Embedded Market. 
NSIcom develops and markets products that optimize and facilitate the use of JavaTM from Sun Microsystems in embedded applications for various real-time (RTOS) systems/devices...
	
	
	
	
	Netclue
	
	A pure Java web browser opens up endless possibilities... It can:
-enable non-PC devices to access the web. 
-extend web services beyond the limit of end-user browsers. 
-combine the enormous power of the Java programming language and HTML/XML...
	
	
	
	
	Ohioedge
	
	At Ohioedge, we specialize in j2ee components built using ejb-java beans-jsp
framework. Ohioedge J2EE Component API is a suite of sales, crm, and workflow j2ee components. It is downloaded by over 75 customers every month...
	
	
	
	
	ProSyst Software AG
	
	ProSyst is a leading provider of Service Gateway Software offering open and
scalable platforms for designing, developing, delivering and managing network based services and applications. ProSyst provides its corporate customers with a complete solution for both embedded devices and back-end administration...
	
	
	
	
	Quantum
	
	Quantum Corporation manufactures the Snap Server®, the industry standard in workgroup Network Attached Storage (NAS) appliances. The Snap Server family of storage appliances delivers file-serving solutions for the small to medium business and large corporate workgroup markets...
	
	
	
	
	Technopoles-M
	
	Java/Z language development of Web ORDBMS applications based on "Sav" technology.
	
	
	
	
	ThinWEB Technologies Inc.
	
	ThinWEB has developed the most comprehensive web access technologies on 
the market for companies requiring rapid, real-time interaction with customers and employees over the Internet. This unique, Java-based core technology facilitates the development of innovative and proprietary 
software applications custom tailored to enterprise needs without costly 
revisions to legacy systems...
	
	
	
	
	Versant India Limited
	
	We are an Object Database company
C44, C.W.P.R.S colony, Khadakwasla,
PUNE
MAHARASTRA
411024
India
	
	
	
	
	Wakesoft
	
	The Wakesoft Architecture Server is the first ready-to-deploy application
architecture for J2EE. The product is a collection of 10 separate, but
integrated, application frameworks for J2EE. The Wakesoft Frameworks solve
complex J2EE problems and enable developers to focus on building their
applications not their architecture...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Mobile and Wireless
	
	
	
	4thpass
	
	4thpass wireless technology gives mobile carriers the ability to manage
and deliver applications - business or entertainment - to
next-generation, Java-enabled devices. The core 4thpass technology is
MAS, a Mobile Application System...
	
	
	
	
	AJile Systems, Inc.
	
	aJile Systems is at the forefront of this embedded Java evolution. Founded by a team of technologists who developed the world's first direct-execution Java Processor, aJile develops and markets a family of microprocessors and IP cores that deliver high-performance, low-power and low-cost Java execution to embedded applications...
	
	
	
	
	AVIDWireless
	
	AVIDWireless provides innovative solutions for rapid development of mobile, wireless and PDA applications. We specialize in developing custom
applications and prototypes using wireless (WAP, Bluetooth, 802...
	
	
	
	
	CardSoft, Inc.
	
	CardSoft, Inc. is the developer and marketer of the eAppliance Solution
Suite, a comprehensive, Java-based, software solution that enables a secure
and interoperable transaction environment for mobile and fixed embedded
devices...
	
	
	
	
	Crisp Wireless
	
	Crisp Wirelss is excited to be working within the field of Micro Application Development. We realize that tremendous value lies within having mobile clients empowered with robust applications that extend an enterprises present technical capital...
	
	
	
	
	Crossroads Technologies, Inc.
	
	Crossroads Technologies is a leading mobile Java engineering firm that
provides innovative wireless Java Technology and network-centric
enterprise solutions, for some of the largest financial institutions on Wall
Street, global telecommunications corporations, consumer electronics
companies and entertainment firms...
	
	
	
	
	Ellipsus Systems
	
	Ellipsus Systems develops and provides the products and assistance that enable enterprises and wireless communications providers to extend the reach of their e-commerce, portal, and relationship management systems to the mobile Internet user, including provisioning of context-sensitive services...
	
	
	
	
	Entervoice, LLC
	
	Entervoice's flagship product is qIVR - a Java-based Voice Application Server (VAS). A VAS is to the telephone, what a Web Server is to the Internet. It is based on the VoiceXML standard but provides a simple and familiar Java API...
	
	
	
	
	First Hop Ltd
	
	First Hop provides scalable messaging management and wireless connectivity products for mobile operators and service providers. A proven leader in multi-vendor messaging solutions, First Hop generates immediate business benefits and provides a clear evolution path to future technologies...
	
	
	
	
	GOMID, Inc.
	
	GOMID is a global Internet innovator of 2D and 3D convertible browsers for Web and wireless solutions. iConnecter Mobile, a 100% pure Java application, is an embedded Web browser that is specifically designed for embedded devices with smaller CPU and memory footprints...
	
	
	
	
	Insignia Solutions
	
	Insignia Solutions’ provisioning-infrastructure software enables wireless carriers and mobile device manufacturers to fully capitalize on the mobile service opportunity. Founded in 1986, Insignia is the market-share leading supplier of Java™ virtual machine software solutions for high-growth markets including mobile, digital TV, telematics, and embedded systems...
	
	
	
	
	Intesys
	
	Intesys is a company of specialized computer science consultancy in the New Information Technologies. The team of professionals that constitutes 
Intesys combines the experience and the capacity of adaptation to this new 
technology framework, which allows us:
- To develop sound of quality solutions to our client challenges...
	
	
	
	
	Isavvix Corporation
	
	We believe that the Java and Internet Platforms most effectively support and link enterprise applications with both fixed and mobile devices in the digital commerce market. We, at iSavvix, enable organizations to simplify the complexity in their systems by providing expert skill sets, technology solutions, and our Java Community for information exchange and learning...
	
	
	
	
	Metrowerks
	
	Metrowerks develops, markets and supports CodeWarrior development tools for the most widely used desktop and embedded operating systems and microprocessor targets. The company was founded in 1985 in Montreal, Canada and moved the corporate headquarters to Austin, Texas ten years later...
	
	
	
	
	NAC Geographic Products Inc.
	
	An innovative software developer specialized in GIS, GPS and mapping technology. The Natural Area Coding System will be the standard input and output for all GPS and GIS to replace longitude/latitude because of its highest efficiency...
	
	
	
	
	On The Edge Software
	
	On The Edge Software, maker of professional shareware specializing
in Client Side Java, Server Side Java, Windows desktop applications, and Windows CE applications.
Current On The Edge Software software products include:
 * eCollector - Collector's Program, which can be customized for collecting Stamps, Bean Babies, and many other collectables...
	
	
	
	
	Pixo
	
	Pixo, Inc., is a leading provider of wireless provisioning software systems. The company develops and markets its Mobile Download Server solution to enable operators and enterprises to deliver a compelling experience to subscribers and mobile workers...
	
	
	
	
	PointBase, Inc.
	
	PointBase, the leader in 100% Pure Java Application Database technology enables applications to manage, synchronize, and extend data globally from servers and server appliances to mobile computers and occasionally connected platforms...
	
	
	
	
	Research in Motion (RIM)
	
	Research In Motion (RIM) is a world leader in the mobile communications market and has a history of developing breakthrough wireless solutions.
RIM's portfolio of award-winning products includes the family of RIM Wireless Handhelds™, the BlackBerry™ wireless email solution, embedded radio-modems and a suite of software development tools...
	
	
	
	
	Rococo Software Limited
	
	Rococo builds mobile collaboration software enabling disparate devices
and applications to be connected together. Our first products are
Java/Bluetooth Developer Tools that enable the rapid creation of
Bluetooth Applications, using the new standardized Java/Bluetooth APIs...
	
	
	
	
	SavaJe Technologies
	
	SavaJe OS, which is a Java operating system, brings the full power of Java to wireless devices, and runs all J2SE, PersonalJava, and MIDP applications with exceptional performance. SavaJe has delivered the write once, run anywhere promise of embedded Java to information appliances...
	
	
	
	
	Seasam House Oy
	
	Seasam Time reduces wireless application development time by 95% !
"Seasam House’s main product, Seasam Time represents the first release of a
product family for virtually ANYONE wanting to produce wireless
applications...
	
	
	
	
	Symbian
	
	Symbian's mission is to set the standard for mobile wireless operating systems and to enable a mass market for Wireless
Information Devices.
The company aims to maximize long term value to its principal customers' businesses by:
 Developing core software, application frameworks, applications and
 development tools for Wireless Information Devices...
	
	
	
	
	Zeosoft
	
	Zeosoft is the only worldwide provider of on-demand mobile server networks. Its mobile platform enables enterprises to develop and deploy critical applications, processes and data to mobile workers through a Java-based application server residing directly on mobile devices...
	
	
	
	
	esmertec, inc.
	
	esmertec is the leading provider of Java(TM) solutions for the mobile world. Our wireless and enterprise class solutions are based on Sun Microsystems J2ME(TM) technology and the Jbed Micro Edition Platform...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Productivity Tools
	
	
	
	AMIS Software
	
	AMIS Software is specialized in custom software development and provides
high quality Java and Web development services.
Our strong intention is delivering state of the art enterprise software
solutions on time and in budget...
	
	
	
	
	Advanced Management Solutions Inc
	
	Advanced Management Solutions provides the AMS REALTIME suite of
productivity tools - helping organizations manage their people across a mix
of projects and non-project tasks. Visit www.amsrealtime.com to find out
how to improve productivity and quality through better management of the
work flowing through your organization...
	
	
	
	
	Extensity, Inc
	
	Extensity's solutions for travel and expense management, project time capture and procurement free employees from the hassles of time-consuming and costly administrative tasks and deliver all of the resources they need to make timely, informed decisions...
	
	
	
	
	FieldWorker Products Ltd.
	
	FieldWorker's Rapid Mobile Application Deveolopment utility has allowed FieldWorker and it's resellers to develop mobile solutions that currently cover over one hundred applications different in over thirty different vertical markets...
	
	
	
	
	Hit Software
	
	HiT Software is a leading developer of standards-based infrastructure for
relational database access. The Allora(tm) XML platform enables enterprise
and B2B data exchange between any systems by mapping XML to relational
>databases...
	
	
	
	
	Intoka Software
	
	Intoka understands the challenges facing IT departments today and was founded to help companies gain control over their entire IT infrastructure.
As the leading provider of top-line onitoring solutions, Intoka helps rapidly growing companies manage and monitor complex, distributed computing environments...
	
	
	
	
	NETRONIC Software GmbH
	
	VARCHART JGantt allows your users to visualize, edit and print their
data in the form of a Gantt diagram. You can easily integrate VARCHART
JGantt into a Java application or a Java applet using Java development
platforms such as JBuilder or VisualAge...
	
	
	
	
	Namaya Technologies
	
	Namaya has developed a unique technological solution for system integrators and IT departments dealing with large enterprise integration implementations. 
Namaya has developed a new solution for Composition of Web Application...
	
	
	
	
	Nuance
	
	Nuance develops, markets and supports a voice interface software platform that makes the information and services of
enterprises, telecommunications networks and the Internet accessible from any telephone...
	
	
	
	
	SoftKnot Corporation
	
	SoftKnot Corporation provides Web-based software and services that enable companies to access and collaborate on files and applications over the Internet using any Java-enabled Web browser.
Our Mission is to help organizations leverage the Internet as the information infrastructure by providing comprehensive infrastructure software solutions that facilitate: 
I) Anywhere, Anytime Secure Web-based File Storage, Access and Collaboration Systems...
	
	
	
	
	Software Tree
	
	Software Tree is a technology leader in providing superior software infrastructure that shifts application/database integration paradigm. Our innovative object-relational mapping technology (JDX) helps achieve significant reductions in the overall time, risks and cost associated with Java database programming...
	
	
	
	
	Spectrum Software, Inc.
	
	Spectrum Software, Inc., is a Norcross, GA based Systems design and
software development firm started in 1991. Spectrum Software has three
divisions: Software Services, which focuses on outsourcing and leading
software development projects for clients; Spectrum Multimedia, which
creates multimedia-based software products for children; and the newly
created Software Products division, which engineers software productivity
tools for software, applications and web developers...
	
	
	
	
	The Solution Cafe
	
	The Solution Cafe provides a Spell Check SDK for Java. Our spell checker software enables developers to add spell checking capabilities to their Java applets, applications, JSP pages and works with all Java application servers...
	
	
	
	
	Thought Inc.
	
	CocoBase Enterprise O/R is the leading O/R mapping tool, optimized for EJB and Java. CocoBase maps database tables, generates scaleable/high performance Java, CMP, BMP, JSP's. It also effortlessly deploys to all the most popular EJB J2EE application servers and IDE's...
	
	
	
	
	User Data Connections Limited
	
	We develop multi-user java groupware products for educational and business use, including whiteboards, chat, message boards, multi-player games and collaborative design tools.
	
	
	
	
	Workbrain, Inc.
	
	Workbrain's Employee Relationship Management (ERM) software applications
automate the most frequent and complex interactions between an enterprise
and its employees, including time and attendance, training registration,
scheduling, skills management, surveys and testing...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Business Intelligence
	
	
	
	Big Faceless Organization
	
	The Big Faceless Organization produces high-quality software components. We aim to remove the learning curve normally associated with third-party software. All our products will work "out-of-the-box", and come with a large number of examples and complete Java API documentation that can be read and understood...
	
	
	
	
	Elixir Technology
	
	Elixir Technology's flagship product, Elixir Report, is a Java and XML-enabled Unified e-Reporting Solution for
information delivery. Written entirely in Java, it provides Global 1000
corporations and ISVs alike a unified e-Reporting solution for
information delivery on any platform, against any data sources with data
source independent templating, and for any countries through
multi-locale internationalization...
	
	
	
	
	EnterpriseDeveloper.com
	
	EnterpriseDeveloper.com is an Independent Software Vendor 
specializing in Java Certification Training solutions. 
A recipient of the 2001 Java Developer Journal Readers Choice
Award for "Best Java Training Program", JCertify is the
leading Java language and Certified Java Programmer Exam
training product available...
	
	
	
	
	Jain Software Consulting, Inc.
	
	Jain Software Consulting, Inc. goal is to provide the customer with the very
best in computer support services to assist clients achieve their objectives
and to build long-term relationships.
JSC have developed networks throughout the world in order to provide Quality
Professionals opportunities for growth...
	
	
	
	
	Lateral Arts Limited
	
	We produce software products and solutions for international clients using C++ and Java.
	
	
	
	
	N30D, Inc.
	
	N30D is a leading consulting company that delivers custom Java based solutions to
companies deploying CRM, Mobile Computing or E-Business applications.
	
	
	
	
	Object Connections
	
	Our product COMMON KNOWLEDGE is an integrated business rules engine and visual studio environment. It provides business users and software developers the means to define, manage and modify the business logic behind complex applications by altering the rules alone - visually, and on the fly...
	
	
	
	
	Qarbon.com, Inc.
	
	Qarbon.com's authoring tool ViewletBuilder creates animated online demos of how software works, perfect for training and support. Cursors glide across the screen, menus and dialog boxes open, etc., all while text balloons and audio describe the action...
	
	
	
	
	SUNOPSIS
	
	Sunopsis is the leading provider of a new generation software package that makes your business applications talk together. Sunopsis v3 is an easy-to-use and efficient software package for Enterprise Application Integration - EAI - and Datawarehouse/Business Intelligence - ETL - projects...
	
	
	
	
	Soft Solution System Limited
	
	3S is the developer and marketer of the SQA, a handy and easy-to-use, Java-based
software system that enables users to analyse the customer satisfaction and
capitalize the result into profit. 3S also develops and markets different 100% pure Java application database system based on the customer requirement...
	
	
	
	
	Stevesoft
	
	Stevesoft provides java software for generating PDF using a java.awt.Graphics object.
 It also
has regular expression software. The regular expression software can search on Strings, Files, Readers, or user defined classes...
	
	
	
	
	i2rd
	
	i2rd was founded by two professors from UNL. We
have been around for over 8 years, and continue to do high level
development for fortune 500 organizations, mainly in web based
applications, Intranets, Extranets, also including eBusiness B2C & B2B...
	
	
	
	
	rapidEffect (p) Ltd.
	
	We are an organization that provides solutions in real time business intelligence as well as non real time business intelligence. We have our own product "proGenie” which is a real time knowledge gateway...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Knowledge Management
	
	
	
	ACElet
	
	ACElet provides cutting edge Java software, especially for J2EE and EJB world.
The flagship product "Super" is a J2EE monitoring and administration tool 
since October 1999. It is a suite for the following tool:
 J2EE Environment,
 J2EE Logging,
 J2EE PeekPoke,
 J2EE Report,
 J2EE Scheduler,
 EJB Stress...
	
	
	
	
	Advanced Management Solutions Inc
	
	Advanced Management Solutions provides the AMS REALTIME suite of software
for portfolio management, project management, resource management and
timesheets. AMS REALTIME runs on all leading platforms including Windows,
Linux, Unix and Apple Mac
	
	
	
	
	Ampersand Info-Tech Pvt. Ltd.
	
	Ampersand Info-Tech is a software solutions provider, offering value added services and products. We look beyond the immediate
benefits of business relationships by establishing long term, mutually beneficial partnerships...
	
	
	
	
	Jnana Technology Corporation
	
	Jnana Technology Corporation was founded in 1995 and is headquartered in New York City. The company has a blue chip customer list and is growing rapidly. The Jnana Logic System 3.0 is an enterprise-class software platform that enables business people to build and maintain Web-based applications that give advice, make business decisions, build customized documents, and provide personalization across Internet, intranet, and wireless channels...
	
	
	
	
	Oblix, Inc.
	
	Oblix Inc. is a leading developer of identity-based security solutions for e-business networks. The company's flagship product, Oblix NetPoint, is a Web access management solution that provides an identity infrastructure for an entire e-business environment...
	
	
	
	
	PipeLive, LLC
	
	The Web Center is a powerful web-based communications product that allows
visitors to your site to request live help by simply clicking a button. This means customers can get all the help they need, when they need it - while they are still on your site...
	
	
	
	
	STC, Inc.
	
	Professional software development company with offshore 
capabilities. Has been found in 1991. Has an offices in Maryland and in 
Russia. ISO-9001 certified. Doing Custom Software development and Consulting 
for the clients in the US and Europe...
	
	
	
	
	Touchtone Corporation
	
	Touchtone Corporation is a software developer for IBM iSeries 400
servers. Its premier product, Wintouch eCRM, is a full-featured,
Web-based CRM solution that is client platform independent via a Java-2
applet...
	
	
	
	
	Websprocket
	
	Websprocket offers a set of design automation tools that enable developers
to design embedded and mobile devices completely in the Java Programming
Language. Devices that are built on this platform are inherently
future-proof, through Websprocket's service-load technology...
	
	
	
	
	Whizlabs Software P Ltd.
	
	An E-learning destination site for IT certification
exam preparation enabling individuals to prepare for SUN (Java
Certification - SCJP, SCWCD), IBM (XML Certification), OCP (Oracle Certified Professional)...
	
	
	
	
	Wide Union Net
	
	We are a software design company in Ningbo, China. We mainly
program for VOD(Video Oon Demand).
	
	
	
	
	Wrox Press Ltd
	
	A unique publishing house with an editorial structure developed to meet the specific needs of the constantly evolving computer industry. However, Wrox is not a traditional publishing business. It is a specialist information provider, delivering solutions to working programmers in a multitude of formats, including dedicated websites and mailing lists...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	E-Business
	
	
	
	2RAD
	
	Two Radical Technologies, Inc. (2RAD) is an established complete technology solutions firm and Internet Service Provider located in Chantilly, Virginia, USA.
	
	
	
	
	A-Frame Software Company, Inc.
	
	A-Frame Software's WorkMovr is an Internet-based Java workflow application
that creates a collaborative work environment between customers, suppliers,
partners and employees in any industry, location or platform...
	
	
	
	
	Advanced Visual Systems
	
	Advanced Visual Systems (AVS) provides industry-leading, interactive data
visualization software and solutions that help business, scientific and engineering users gain critical insight from all types of data...
	
	
	
	
	Anyware Technology
	
	Anyware Technology developes network security softwares, including email client, email server, certificate authority server, and secure remote access server, that enable the strongest encryption (256-bit AES Encryption) to protect individuals and corporations from network attacks and thefts...
	
	
	
	
	BEA Systems: WebLogic Workshop
	
	BEA Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq: BEAS) is the world's leading application
infrastructure software company, with nearly 12,500 customers around the
world, including the majority of the Fortune Global 500. BEA and its
WebLogic® brand are among the most trusted names in business...
	
	
	
	
	CLEVERLANCE
	
	Cleverlance is dedicated to software development, project management, analysis of Information Systems and education in modern technologies. The company specialises in Secure Internet Based Systems and technologies, especially B2B Systems and Financial and Telco systems...
	
	
	
	
	DCH Systems, Inc.
	
	Since its beginning in 1999, DCH has been driven to do one thing: Deliver innovative software products that improve business performance. BlueBridge BPMS is the most robust, comprehensive and portable business process management system for large enterprises that need end-to-end application, B2B and business process integration...
	
	
	
	
	Drala Software, Inc.
	
	Drala Software is a leading innovator of enterprise Java solutions. Drala Workflow Engine is an embeddable component for business process automation. It includes Drala Workflow Studio, a graphical environment for modeling workflows...
	
	
	
	
	ECHO, INc.
	
	ECHO is a Merchant Processor with it’s own
Proprietary Secure Payment Gateway. ECHO has been doing Internet credit card
processing using our own gateway since 1996! We also provide every type of
check, ach, and electronic check processing service...
	
	
	
	
	HillCast Technologies, Inc.
	
	HillCast Technologies, Inc. is the leading next-generation developer of
real-time streaming financial applications for mobile devices.
HillCast's flagship product, MidCast, is the first carrier-grade
designed mobile financial application that allows for secure and
continuous real-time streaming of stock quotes, stock details, charts,
graphs, and news...
	
	
	
	
	Idetix Web Content Management Software
	
	Idetix is an Internet Software/Solutions Provider that develops and supports software solutions for web development activities. Our core competency is integrating affordable content management into any web site...
	
	
	
	
	InetSoft Technology Corp
	
	InetSoft Technology is a leading software development and service company. InetSoft was founded in 1996 by a strong team who came from world-renowned organizations. The strong belief in open standard-based
software and the company's early vision for Internet based technologies has given InetSoft a solid lead in this arena...
	
	
	
	
	LGB Systems
	
	LGB Systems is dedicated to providing developers with high-performance
components and top-notch support for Visual Studio® environment , Java and
Web services.We offer consulting services in Software development to all size of business both in the private and public sector...
	
	
	
	
	MetaMatrix
	
	MetaMatrix provides the only scalable enterprise metadata management and
information integration solutions adhering to metadata standards. This focus
on standards ensures interoperability with a wide-range of third-party tools
and services...
	
	
	
	
	Moai Technologies
	
	Moai Technologies, Inc., provides e-sourcing solutions that address the
strategic sourcing needs of Global 2000 companies. By bringing together
strategic sourcing services and enterprise software, Moai has the most
versatile e-sourcing solution on the market designed to meet the evolving
online sourcing needs of any organization...
	
	
	
	
	NetApps
	
	NetApps es el provedor lider de soluciones y productos java en Mexico.
Contamos con aplicaciones de colaboracion de grupos como jforum y neteval, asi como productos de CRM como net helpdesk.
Tambien proporcionamos consultoria sobre los productos de Sitraka, WebGain, Orion, Oracle, DataDirect y XMLSpy...
	
	
	
	
	North East Wisconsin Technologies, Inc.
	
	Software consulting, development and sales. Business systems and engineering
software
	
	
	
	
	Savvion, Inc.
	
	Savvion provides software that lets companies operate at their peak efficiency. Savvion BusinessManager™ is a comprehensive business process management platform that allows companies to align their business processeswith their corporate strategies and closely monitor these automated operations using proven management systems such as balanced scorecards...
	
	
	
	
	Streamway Technology Partners Ltd.
	
	Streamway Technology Partners is a young, energetic, technology 
solutions company focusing on new economy application development, 
training, and project management. 
We supply the necessary management, personnel, and other resources 
to assist with the implementation of IT related projects / solutions...
	
	
	
	
	Streamway Technology Partners Ltd.
	
	Streamway Technology Partners is a young, energetic, technology 
solutions company focusing on new economy application development, 
training, and project management. 
We supply the necessary management, personnel, and other resources 
to assist with the implementation of IT related projects / solutions...
	
	
	
	
	Torry Harris Business Solutions
	
	Torry Harris is a software services and solutions company headquartered in the US with an offshore development center in India. We specialize in designing, building, testing and maintaining commercial applications using Distributed Computing, Transaction Processing, Messaging, Web Application Server, and Electronic Commerce technologies...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	System Integration
	
	
	
	Apsora, Inc.
	
	Apsora has developed a powerful, all-Java, client infrastructure that combines the best of browsers with the richness of a desktop interface. Utilizing Internet technologies such as XML, Java, and SOAP, Apsora’s Internet Application System (IAS™) provides desktop richness to enterprise applications, and provides a true execution vehicle for tomorrow’s Internet applications...
	
	
	
	
	Artezio, LLC
	
	Artezio is a professional offshore software development center based in
Moscow, the Capital of Russia. Established in 2000, Artezio provides high
quality cost-effective software development outsourcing services to clients
in Europe and North America...
	
	
	
	
	CONSISTENT
	
	Solutions provider for IT requirements using cutting edge technologies such as Java, XML, WAP & CORBA.
	
	
	
	
	Cairo Corporation
	
	Cairo Corporation is an Information Technology Company specializing in
technology integration, software design, telecommunications and courseware
development. Cairo provides these services to a number of government
(Federal, State and Local) and commercial customers...
	
	
	
	
	Creative Science Systems, Inc.
	
	Creative Science Systems is manufacturer of platform independent system level software. The company leverages its NetZyme(R) software infrastructure technology to bring to market a NetZyme(R) line of enterprise-grade software products...
	
	
	
	
	DataMirror Corporation
	
	DataMirror Corporation (Nasdaq: DMCX; TSE: DMC) delivers solutions that let customers integrate their data across their enterprises. DataMirror’s comprehensive family of products unlocks the experience of now™ by providing advanced real-time capture, transform and flow (CTF) technology that gives customers the instant access, integration and availability they demand today across all computers in their business...
	
	
	
	
	HOB Electronic
	
	HOB is a pioneer in the market for Java programming, offering a full line of
web-to-host and other connectivity solutions, as well as products for classic
terminal emulation, security, database access, AS/400 and UNIX connectivity...
	
	
	
	
	I-Compass
	
	i-Compass provides a full range of e-business and online solutions for emerging and
established organizations. Our grasp of the rapidly changing digital landscape ensures
that your goals will be accomplished using cutting edge technology...
	
	
	
	
	MKS
	
	MKS (TSE:MKX) provides best of breed solutions to enable development teams to analyze, build and deploy software systems quickly and reliably. The company's SCM products offer advanced technology with robust workflow, code management, and impact analysis capabilities...
	
	
	
	
	NEON Systems
	
	NEON’s Shadow Direct provides direct access to ADABAS, CICS, DB2, IMS/DB, IMS/TM, NATURAL, and VSAM from a single architecture without requiring a mid-tier gateway. Standard integration APIs include JCA, JDBC, SQLJ, and SQL...
	
	
	
	
	NetProSys, Inc.
	
	We are in business since 1991 and our
developed software are being used in many fortune 500 companies. We have
world-class knowledge in distributed computing architectures such as CORBA,
Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), D/COM, Use Case Modeling, JAVA, XML, Visual
Basic, Oject Oriented Project Management and Component Based Development
(CBD)...
	
	
	
	
	OOP-Reserch
	
	OOP-Reserch has developed a series of light-weight, yet powerful Java components for JSP/Servlet programming. With these Java components, a few lines of code are enough for your JSP or Servlet to use XML, JDBC and JavaMail in a Thread Safe way...
	
	
	
	
	Object Computing Inc. (OCI)
	
	A software engineering company which provides innovative solutions and
support for the development of distributed object-oriented, wireless,
real-time and embedded
applications. Services include training, mentoring, consulting and use of
open source products...
	
	
	
	
	PrismTech Limited
	
	PrismTech develops and markets Integration Server technology. PrismTech's
OpenFusion® software bridges industry standards including J2EE™, CORBA®, XML
and SOAP, to add Integration Server capability to J2EE™ Application Servers
and CORBA® middleware platforms...
	
	
	
	
	Xsinter Solution
	
	Xsinter is a Extensible System inegration company in the area of B2B , B2W , A2A.Xsinter offers cost effecitive offshore application development facility. Xsinter primarily focus on (J2EE/J2SE/J2ME) technology...
	
	
	
	
	my-channels
	
	My-Channels provides a complete technology integration suite designed to
extend the reach and investments made in existing technology
implementations. The technology components Nirvana and Matrix integrate
and extend existing middleware technology and bespoke data sources with
other technology platforms both within and between organisations,
significantly reducing the time and cost taken to interface with new
systems...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Application Development Tools
	
	
	
	AltoWeb
	
	The AltoWeb Application Platform enables companies to rapidly build, test, deploy, manage, and change J2EE
applications and Web Services. Built entirely on open standards, the AltoWeb Application Platform delivers highly
scalable and reliable e-business solutions that leverage the power of leading J2EE-compliant application servers
including BEA WebLogic Server and IBM WebSphere Application Server...
	
	
	
	
	Aqris Software AS
	
	Aqris is the creator of RefactorIT, the Java Refactoring Browser for the
Corporate Java developer. We live XP, and we know that refactoring is
the only way code bases can continue evolve and stay flexible...
	
	
	
	
	Borland
	
	Borland Software Corporation is a leading provider of technology used to develop, deploy and integrate software
applications. Delivering best-in-class technology solutions dedicated to interoperability, Borland allows
enterprises of all sizes to move into Web based computing while leveraging legacy systems...
	
	
	
	
	Chive Software Limited
	
	Makers of Java(tm) source code engineering tools for cross-referencing,
import management and refactoring.
	
	
	
	
	CodeBase Software
	
	Sequiter Software Inc. has been providing developers with high-performance
database solutions and services since 1984. We build software around internationally-based standards such as xBASE, OLE/DB, ADO, ODBC and SQL...
	
	
	
	
	Codework
	
	Codework provides essential tools to help Java developers easily spot and resolve performance bottlenecks, memory leaks and thread related issues, while ensuring the
integrity of test sessions. The tool-set includes a profiler, Thread Debugger and Code Coverage...
	
	
	
	
	Cooperative Software Systems, Inc.
	
	Cooperative Software Systems, Inc., is a leader in developing
asynchronous-process, multi-threading application software.
CSS sells an asynchronous process manager, (Tymeac), that provides a queuing facility, thread management and recursive processing in a separate JVM with a minimal footprint that is easy to use...
	
	
	
	
	Da Vinci Communications Ltd.
	
	Da Vinci Communications is a leading provider of software testing solutions based on the standardised test notation - TTCN.
Da Vinci Communications products are used to specify automated tests for technologies such as Bluetooth™, 3G, GSM, DECT, INAP, ISDN, TETRA, VoIP and others...
	
	
	
	
	Daeja Image Systems
	
	Daeja Image Systems - developers of viewONE, a lightweight Java TIFF
Viewer - viewONE is a high performance Java applet for viewing and
annotating images and multipage image documents TIFF, JPEG and BMP,
ideal for imaging and internet enabled document management systems...
	
	
	
	
	Daffodil Software Pvt. Ltd.
	
	Daffodil Software, based in India is an emerging provider of Java™ based Database Technology, Reporting Solutions and advanced EIS applications, pursuing both system and application programming simultaneously...
	
	
	
	
	Data Representations
	
	Data Representations' provides a family of Java Rapid Application Development tools including Simplicity Professional, Simplicity Enterprise, and Simplicity for Mobile Devices. Together with PointBase, these tools will allow developers to create robust J2SE or J2ME applications quicker than ever...
	
	
	
	
	Davisor Ltd.
	
	Davisor Ltd. produces high quality software components for the selection and
creation of dynamic content. We specialize in Java™ applications for wired
and wireless networks.
	
	
	
	
	Distinct Corporation
	
	Distinct develops and markets the Distinct RPC Toolkit for Java. This toolkit enables Java developers to write distributed applications in pure Java that can interact with existing RPC application written in C...
	
	
	
	
	Eagle Software
	
	Our company offers consultancy and development of Java technology-based 
applications in the field of Internet Services and Multimedia Authoring 
Tools. Our commitment is providing high quality software solutions to 
real-world problems using state-of-the-art technology...
	
	
	
	
	Excelsior, LLC
	
	Excelsior, LLC is dedicated to provision of top quality products and
services for all stages of software development and maintenance, with
particular focuses on compilers and the Java(tm) technology. The flagship
product of the company, Excelsior JET, dramatically improves performance,
scalability, and protection of Java applications on the Microsoft Windows
platform...
	
	
	
	
	Generic Logic
	
	GLG Toolkit: The award-winning 100% Pure Java Dynamic Graphics Framework with the Java Bean interface for developing dynamic HMIs and custom graphical components in Java. Includes an interactive Graphics
Builder, a Component Library (charts, dials, meters, etc...
	
	
	
	
	ILOG
	
	ILOG provides wordlwide to Fortune 500, the easiest way to manage dynamically
the rules they use for their business processes.These plug and play rules
engines allow the developers to save development time and to offer the
end-user an easy straightforward management capability of the business rules
through native features such as definition of a business syntax used to
write the rules in a spoken language form, repository, or versioning...
	
	
	
	
	Idera Corporation
	
	Idera's software helps developers achieve their IT objectives faster, more
efficiently, and less expensively. Idera’s JSync is a groundbreaking
productivity toolbox for developers: for the first time, developers have
just one tool to buy and learn for database development, data management,
migration, and integration across ALL databases and operating systems...
	
	
	
	
	InfoZoom
	
	infoZoom develops tools and offers services for bridging the Java and Microsoft Windows World. The tool jacoZoom allows Java-programmers to programmatically access a multitude of applications and components, such as MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Outlook, Corel Draw, Internet Explorer, in short anything which adhers to the COM Automation standard...
	
	
	
	
	Infonyte GmbH
	
	Infonyte's core business is the development and marketing of a lightweight
database product specialized in storage, retrieval and processing of data
encoded in XML. Infonyte's products distinguish itself through their
lightweight and scalable implementation...
	
	
	
	
	Information Laboratory, Inc.
	
	Small Worlds is innovative software analysis and visualization tool for
Java and C++. Small Worlds focuses on structural stability and risk
management in large-scale software.
	
	
	
	
	Intercomp
	
	Intercomp is an international tool developer and solution provider for
analyzing, Web-enabling, re-engineering and platform re-hosting of legacy
applications. 
Solutions offered include Legacy application analysis, Business Rule
Extraction from legacy applications and regenerating them in Java language,
XML, UML or COBOL, and Legacy Web-enabling, providing Java TM
technology-based, Web-to-host access to legacy applications...
	
	
	
	
	J3 Limited
	
	J3 Limited specialises in internet technologies. A Java JDBC iterative code
generator is available for evaluation and purchase. The product allows programmers to quickly specify and generate JDBC data access classes...
	
	
	
	
	JBC Software
	
	JBC is a company specialized in software development, such as VisualMust, JBC Beans Suite, HomePage Publisher (HPP), Gpf, GpfRexx.
	
	
	
	
	Laser-Scan
	
	Laser-Scan is an international industry leader in the
geospatial market delivering advanced GIS solutions for mapping and
charting, joined-up government and location based services. Whether you want
to deliver mapping over the web or personalised location based services,
Laser-Scan's unique technology brings your data to life...
	
	
	
	
	Lineo
	
	Where Open Meets Smart
Changes are sweeping the embedded world. The legacy practices of roll-your-own or become dependant on a single proprietary company for your solutions have become restrictive and costly...
	
	
	
	
	Luciad NV
	
	Luciad develops advanced software solutions for geo-data distribution,
processing, and visualization in network environments. Luciad’s core product is LuciadMap, a Java software that easily can be integrated in existing GIS and CAD systems...
	
	
	
	
	Mirador Software
	
	Mirador Software specialises in providing enterprise solutions using the latest Java technologies.
Mirador's Product Portfolio is a suite of Rapid Application Generation tools that provide a complete enterprise solution which fully eEnables your Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) based legacy systems...
	
	
	
	
	NetProof Solutions & Consulting, LLC
	
	NetProof Solutions, the e-media solutions company(sm), enables businesses to take maximum advantage of the power of the internet through internet-enabling software products and solutions, and creative and new media consulting services and solutions that help them accomplish their business goals...
	
	
	
	
	NeuVis Software
	
	NeuVis Software provides the leading e-business development platform for
rapidly creating agile enterprise-class e-business applications. The NeuVis
platform is particularly well suited to constructing B2B collaborative
commerce applications, Web-enabling legacy systems and creating Web
services...
	
	
	
	
	Nexaweb Technologies, Inc
	
	Nexaweb Technologies develops and markets the only standards-based smart
client solution for empowering net-native business applications across a
variety of devices, networks and bandwidths. Nexaweb Server is a
presentation and communications platform that delivers a desktop-like
application experience over the Web using a standard browser, without
client-side downloads or plug-in's...
	
	
	
	
	ObjectFrontier, Inc
	
	ObjectFrontier, Inc., is a privately held company founded in 1997 with offices in Atlanta and Chennai, India. ObjectFrontier's flagship product FrontierSuite is a powerful JCA compliant persistence engine and a Model Driven Architecture (MDA) based platform for designing, developing and deploying both Java and J2EE applications...
	
	
	
	
	ObjectVenture Inc.
	
	ObjectVenture accelerates the development of enterprise solutions with innovative technology and frameworks. Our software enables both experienced and novice developers to participate in building powerful enterprise solutions quickly and easily as well as make the promise of object reuse a reality...
	
	
	
	
	Quickstream Software, Inc.
	
	The Quickstream e-Content Management Platform is a flexible Web-based
application to centralize, search, control, classify (via metadata), version
and track electronic business files regardless of format...
	
	
	
	
	Quintessence Systems Limited
	
	Quintessence Systems is specialist developer and marketer of automated
migration software technology for migrating Oracle legacy applications into
Java. in2j is written in Java and downloadable from Quintessence's website
at http://www...
	
	
	
	
	RemoteApps Ltd.
	
	Xyrian is tool that provides Java developers with the architecture and
functionality to simplify the creation and management of J2EE applications.
Using a component approach and utilizing J2EE BluePrints and Design
Patterns, Xyrian provides rapid application development functionality that
can significantly reduce the timescales and complexities of developing and
deploying Java applications...
	
	
	
	
	TogetherSoft Corporation
	
	Dedicated to improving the ways people work together, TogetherSoft
Corporation is a leading provider of software and services that enable
enterprises to increase innovation, raise productivity and reduce
time-to-market...
	
	
	
	
	XadrA LLC
	
	XadrA provides technology products and services for interactive online
entertainment.
Our Fortress Interactive Entertainment Platform is a comprehensive solution
for the rapid creation and deployment of multiplayer games accessible by
mobile devices...
	
	
	
	
	Yospace
	
	The Yospace Application Platform provides a comprehensive and extensible
server-based framework accompanied by a suite of enabling APIs and tools
that make it easier to build usable and scalable applications for
J2ME-enabled devices...
	
	
	
	
	Zero G Software, Inc.
	
	San Francisco-based Zero G™ delivers the world’s most powerful software deployment solutions anytime, anywhere, and on any platform. Founded in 1996, the privately held company has transformed Java’s write once, run
anywhere vision into reality by developing the industry’s first
multi-platform software installer solution, InstallAnywhere® and live
updating solution PowerUpdate...
	
	
	
	
	eVision - Visual Search Technology
	
	eVe 3 Professional is a visual search solution that lets you search images and videos based on the perceptional content of the media rather than relying on keywords or text descriptions. Simply give the search engine a sample image of what you want to find (such as a persons face), and it searches through your digital video footage or photos and finds all sequences with visually similar content...
	
	
	
	
	nanoTITAN, Inc.
	
	nanoTITAN offers unique Java libraries and applications for scientists and engineers, with an emphasis on serving the nanotechnology community. Our free, open source libraries such as the Quantity, Property and Utilities Libraries provide an excellent foundation for any development effort...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Sapient
	
	Designing Technology That Matters.
	
	
	
	
	TogetherSoft: Leading App Dev Software
	
	Want proof, not hype? Download a free trial of Together ControlCenter 6.0 now and find out why nine out of 10 developers prefer Together ControlCenter 6.0 over their current application development tool for its ability to simplify and integrate the analysis' design' implementation' deployment' and debugging of complex applications...
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Sapient
	
	Designing Technology That Matters.
	
	
	
	
	TogetherSoft: Leading App Dev Software
	
	Want proof, not hype? Download a free trial of Together ControlCenter 6.0 now and find out why nine out of 10 developers prefer Together ControlCenter 6.0 over their current application development tool for its ability to simplify and integrate the analysis' design' implementation' deployment' and debugging of complex applications...
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
PointBase is not liable for the content on member's webpages. PointBase reserves the right to prohibit use of the webpage, eliminate content, or revoke membership at our discretion. 
 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
