
The Hubble Telescope
The Hubble Telescope
The Hubble Space Telescope was released into space on April 24, 1990 by the Space Shuttle Discovery. The reason for the Hubble was that the atmosphere restricts veiwing images clearly by reflecting light.
The power of the Hubble is astounding. It can see some objects at a rate of 50 times fainter than any Earth bound telescope can even get a focus on.
Previous Updates:
A mysterious object that seems to defy classification has
been found by astronomers using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope.
The image is available online at:
http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/pictures/wfpc
The object looks like a young, dust-enshrouded star with
narrow jets of material resembling strings of beads streaming
from each side.
The Hubble astronomers, Dr. Raghvendra Sahai of NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif., and Lars-Ake Nyman of
the European Southern Observatory, Chile, and Onsala Space
Observatory, Sweden, suspect this enigmatic object, known as He2-
90, may be a pair of aging stars masquerading as a single
youngster.The stars are not visible in the Hubble
images because they're obscured by a disk of dust.
Each jet has at least six bright clumps of gas speeding away
at estimated rates of at least 600,000 kilometers an hour
(375,000 miles an hour) and extending at least 100,000
astronomical units (one astronomical unit equals the Earth-Sun
distance of 150 million kilometers or 93 million miles). Astronomers believe that magnetic fields associated with
accretion disks produce and constrict the pencil-thin jets.
This oddball star was discovered during an imaging survey of
planetary nebulae. The images and results appear in the Aug. 1 issue of the
Astrophysical Journal Letters.
For the first time, scientists have been able to watch the
process of two of Jupiter's giant "white oval" storms, each about
half the size of Earth, colliding and merging to form an even
bigger storm.
"Usually when we've seen two of them approaching each other,
they bounce back away from each other," said Dr. Glenn Orton,
senior research scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
Pasadena, Calif., and member of a team of Spanish, French and
American astronomers that used NASA's Hubble Space Telescope and
ground-based telescopes to study the ovals this year.
An image of the storms before and after merging is available at
http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/pictures/jovianstorm
The researchers speculate that a similar merger took place
centuries ago and may have built Jupiter's famous Great Red Spot,
a storm that is twice as wide as the Earth and has persisted in
Jupiter's southern hemisphere for more than 300 years.
Seeing the collision of two storms will help scientists
understand more about the dynamics of Jupiter's atmosphere,
Sanchez-Lavega said. In
this year's merger, the upper layer seemed to move differently
than underlying clouds.
Three white oval storms, in a band of Jupiter's atmosphere
farther south than the Great Red Spot, became active about 60
years ago. When the planet came back into
view, the three had become one.
Last year, the oval resulting from the 1998 combination
approached the remaining one of the original three ovals. One was about 9,000 kilometers (about 5,600
miles) across, the other slightly smaller.
A third, darker oval, swirling clockwise instead of
counterclockwise, formed temporarily between the two white ovals.
The disappearance of the opposite-swirling storm from
between them cleared the way for the two white ovals to meet.
Their collision dance began in March and lasted about three
weeks. At the cloud tops, the storms circled around each other
counterclockwise, then consolidated into a single oval about one-
third wider than either of the ovals had been beforehand.
The ovals' approach and merger was viewed in various
wavelengths, showing events at different depths, with a planetary
telescope at Pic-du-Midi in France, NASA's Infrared Telescope
Facility in Hawaii, and the orbiting Hubble Space Telescope, a
facility of NASA and the European Space Agency.
Astronomers have stripped a galaxy near the Big Dipper of 
its title as "Most Distant Object Known" by using different 
techniques to make improved estimates of its distance that show 
it is closer than it first appeared.
The object was first reported last year when a team of 
scientists identified the faint galaxy, officially called STIS 
123627+621755 but referred to informally as "Sharon," in images 
taken with NASA's Hubble Space Telescope. They inferred a 
distance of approximately 12.5 billion light years, which would 
make it the most distant object known. That distance is 
equivalent to looking back in time to about 600 million years 
after the Big Bang, just five percent of the current age of the 
universe.
A team of astronomers led by Dr. Daniel Stern of NASA's Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif., reports that new 
observations show the galaxy is closer than previously believed, 
likely about 10 billion light years away, corresponding to 
3.3.billion years after the Big Bang. That's about 25 percent of 
the current age of the universe. The findings are reported in 
the Nov. 30 issue of the journal Nature, along with similar 
findings from the scientist whose team made last year's estimate 
of the distance.
Stern and his colleagues showed that the redshift of the 
galaxy was different than had been originally reported. 
Redshift, the standard distance measurement used by astronomers, 
measures how fast an object is moving away from us as the 
universe expands. The faster it moves away, the more its light 
shifts to the red part of the spectrum (toward longer 
wavelengths). In the 1920s, Dr. Edwin Hubble discovered that the 
faster an object appears to move, the farther away it is. 
"The identification of galaxies at extreme distances 
provides our most direct information on the earliest phases of 
galaxy formation," said Stern, whose team made the new 
observations using images obtained at the W.M. Keck Observatory, 
Mauna Kea, Hawaii. "These great distances make this a 
challenging endeavor for even the most luminous sources; it's 
hard for scientists to interpret faint observations of distant 
galaxies, and occasional misidentifications will occur."
"The universe has been kind," said co-author Dr. Peter 
Eisenhardt, also of JPL. "Distant objects have a simple 
signature -- they are dark at shorter, bluer wavelengths, and 
abruptly 'turn on' where their light is too red to be absorbed by 
hydrogen clouds near them. By measuring the wavelength where 
this 'turn on' occurs, we are able to calculate the distance."
"Basically, the colors of this galaxy are completely 
inconsistent with it being extremely distant," explained co-
author Dr. Hyron Spinrad, an astrophysics professor at the 
University of California, Berkeley. 
With this galaxy's distance debunked, the new titleholder 
for most distant object in the universe is a quasar identified by 
astronomers in September 2000.
In addition to Stern, Eisenhardt and Spinrad, the team also 
includes Steve Dawson of U.C. Berkeley; Dr. Adam Stanford of the 
University of California, Davis; Drs. Wil van Breugel and Wim de 
Vries of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, 
Calif.; and Dr. Arjun Dey of the Kitt Peak National Observatory 
near Tucson, Ariz.
The discovery last year, which led to the now-cancelled 
title of "Most Distant Object," was made by a team from the State 
University of New York, Stony Brook, led by Dr. Hsiao-Wen Chen.
Current Updates:
Wednesday, June 27, 2001
Scientists are mystified by what may be unexpected,
wandering, planet-sized objects.
A new image taken by NASA's Hubble Space Telescope
implies the presence of these objects. The image is available
at http://oposite.stsci.edu/pubinfo/latest.html and
http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/images/wfpc .
If confirmed, the new information collected by Hubble's
Wide Field and Planetary Camera 2 could yield new insights
about how stars and planets formed. The camera was designed
and built by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena,
Calif.
In results published this week in the journal Nature, the
scientists report six unusual "microlensing" events inside the
globular cluster M22. Microlensing occurs when a background
star brightens momentarily as a foreground object drifts by.
The gravitational field of the object amplifies light from a
distant background star in the huge central bulge of our
galaxy. The objects believed to cause these events are too
dim to be seen directly.
The unusually short period (less than 20 hours) over
which these microlensing events occurred indicates that the
mass of the intervening objects could be as little as 80 times
that of Earth. If confirmed, these bodies would be the
smallest celestial objects ever seen beyond our solar system
that are not orbiting any star.
Theoretically, these objects might be planets that were
gravitationally torn away from parent stars in the cluster.
However, they are estimated to make up as much as 10 percent
of the cluster's mass -- too numerous to be wandering,
"orphaned" planets.
Because these findings are so surprising, the astronomers
caution that they must be confirmed by follow-up Hubble
observations.
The new Hubble image includes an inset photo showing the
entire globular cluster of about 10 million stars. Globular
cluster M22 is about 60 light-years wide. A light year equals
about 9.5 trillion kilometers (5.9 trillion miles). The image
was taken in June 1995 by the Burrell Schmidt telescope at the
Case Western Reserve University's Warner and Swasey
Observatory on Kitt Peak in Arizona.
Tuesday, July 10, 2001
By spying on a neighboring galaxy, NASA's Hubble Space
Telescope has captured an image of a young, globular-like star
cluster -- a type of object unknown in our Milky Way Galaxy.
The image, taken by Hubble's Wide Field and Planetary
Camera 2, is online at
http://oposite.stsci.edu/pubinfo/pr/2001/25 and
http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/images/wfpc . The camera was designed
and built by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena,
Calif.
The double cluster NGC 1850 lies in a neighboring
satellite galaxy, the Large Magellanic Cloud. It has two
relatively young components. The main, globular-like cluster
is in the center. A smaller cluster is seen below and to the
right, composed of extremely hot, blue stars and fainter red
T-Tauri stars. The main cluster is about 50 million years old;
the smaller one is 4 million years old.
A filigree pattern of diffuse gas surrounds NGC 1850.
Scientists believe the pattern formed millions of years ago
when massive stars in the main cluster exploded as supernovas.
Hubble can observe a range of star types in NGC 1850,
including the faint, low-mass T-Tauri stars, which are
difficult to distinguish with ground-based telescopes.
Hubble's fine angular resolution can pick out these stars,
even in other galaxies. Massive stars of the OB type emit
large amounts of energetic ultraviolet radiation, which is
absorbed by the Earth's atmosphere. From Hubble's position
above the atmosphere, it can detect this ultraviolet light.
NGC 1850, the brightest star cluster in the Large
Magellanic Cloud, is in the southern constellation of Dorado,
called the Goldfish or the Swordfish. This image was created
from five archival exposures taken by the Wide Field Planetary
Camera 2 between April 3, 1994 and February 6, 1996. More
information about the Hubble Space Telescope is online at
http://www.stsci.edu . More information about the Wide Field
and Planetary Camera 2 is at http://wfpc2.jpl.nasa.gov.
For more information on the Hubble Telescope, please visit Hubble's Greatest Hits -- Discovery.com
