
Deep Space 1
Deep Space 1
Deep Space 1 was launched in October 1998 as part of NASA's
New Millennium Program, which is managed by JPL for NASA's Office
of Space Science, Washington, DC. The California Institute of
Technology in Pasadena manages JPL for NASA.
It has the little engine that could, and the pint-sized 
power plant on board NASA's Deep Space 1 probe has been doing it
longer and more efficiently than anything ever launched. The
spacecraft, designed to test new technologies, has run its unique
propulsion system for more than 200 days (4,800 hours).
"The ion propulsion engine on Deep Space 1 has now
accumulated more operating time in space than any other
propulsion system in the history of the space program," said John
Brophy, manager of the NASA Solar Electric Propulsion Technology
Applications Readiness project, at the agency's Jet Propulsion
Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena, Calif.
Unlike the fireworks of most chemical rockets using solid or
liquid fuels, the ion drive emits only an eerie blue glow as
ionized (electrically charged) atoms of xenon are pushed out of
the engine. Xenon is the same gas found in photo flash tubes and
many lighthouse bulbs.
The almost imperceptible thrust from the system is
equivalent to the pressure exerted by a sheet of paper held in
the palm of your hand. The ion engine is very slow to pick up
speed, but over the long haul it can deliver 10 times as much
thrust per pound of fuel as more traditional rockets.
Previous ion propulsion systems, like those found on some
communications satellites, were not used as the main engines, but
only to keep the satellites on track. Deep Space 1 is the first
spacecraft to use this important technology as its primary means
of propulsion.
"The importance of ion propulsion is its great efficiency,"
says Dr. Marc Rayman, project manager for Deep Space 1. "It uses
very little propellant, and that means it weighs less so it can
use a less expensive launch vehicle and ultimately go much faster
than other spacecraft."
The ion particles travel out at about 109,000 kilometers per
hour (68,000 miles per hour). However, Deep Space 1 doesn't move
that fast in the other direction, because it's much heavier than
the ion particles. By the end of the mission, the ion engine will
have changed the spacecraft's speed by about 11,000 kilometers
per hour (6,800 miles per hour).
"This opens the solar system to many future exciting
missions which otherwise would have been unaffordable or even
impossible," added Dr. Rayman.
The technology is so efficient that it only consumes about
100 grams (3.5 ounces) of xenon per day, taking about four days
to expend just 0.4 kg (one pound).
The only other system that has operated longer is a ground-
based replica of the spacecraft's engine. The ongoing extended-
life test, being done in a vacuum test chamber at JPL, has run
its ion propulsion system for almost 500 days (12,000 hours) and
is scheduled to complete nearly 625 days (15,000 hours) by the
end of the year.
The Deep Space 1 ion engine could have a total operating
time of more than 583 days (14,000 hours) by the end of its
mission in the fall of 2001.
With its primary mission to serve as a technology
demonstrator -- testing ion propulsion and 11 other advanced
technologies -- successfully completed in September 1999, Deep
Space 1 is now headed for a rendezvous with Comet Borrelly. NASA
extended the mission, taking advantage of the ion propulsion and
other systems to target a risky, but exciting, encounter with the
comet in September 2001.
But early in this bonus mission Deep Space 1 suffered a
serious setback with the loss of its star tracker navigation
system. Rather than abandon the project, NASA engineers managed a
deep-space rescue. They sent new software, on-the-fly, turning an
onboard camera into a navigation instrument -- all while Deep
Space 1 was 321 million kilometers (200 million miles) from
Earth.
NASA's Deep Space 1 spacecraft, sailing through the solar
system today, has taken delivery of a new cargo: the latest
software for its ambitious encounter with Comet Borrelly this
September.
After successfully finishing its primary mission in 1999
as a testing ground for important new technologies, NASA
approved a risky bonus mission to Comet Borrelly for Deep
Space 1. There the spacecraft will take black-and-white
pictures, use infrared pictures to find out the nature of the
comet's surface, measure and identify the gases coming from
the comet, and measure the interaction of solar wind with the
comet. To take pictures of the comet, Deep Space 1 must
upgrade its software's pointing system to turn the spacecraft
from a testbed for advanced technologies to a chronicler of
Comet Borrelly.
"Deep Space 1's previous version of software, which was
transmitted to the spacecraft eight months ago, has proven
itself during the surprisingly successful flight through the
solar system since then, but now we're giving the probe a new
assignment," said Dr. Marc Rayman, the project manager. "And
in order to prepare for this exciting and daring comet
encounter, the software needs to be upgraded."
The spacecraft team will be checking the software,
radioed to Deep Space 1 throughout the week of March 5. The
first check came when the team actually received a signal from
the spacecraft after it shut the main computer off and
restarted it. Since the software sent by the team works well,
the spacecraft sent a signal indicating it is healthy. Now
engineers are giving the spacecraft's new software a thorough
physical checkup.
"The process of transmitting the new software to the
spacecraft, rebooting the on-board computer to begin running
it, verifying that the spacecraft is working properly with the
new software and restoring the craft to its cruise
configuration, all when the spacecraft is 318 million
kilometers (197 million miles) away, is a complex and tricky
operation, " said Daniel Eldred, the Deep Space 1 mission
manager.
The new software contains capabilities that will be
needed when the spacecraft gets to Borrelly. The new commands
will include lessons that Deep Space 1 learned in its 1999
encounter with asteroid Braille about the behavior of the
spacecraft when it gets close to a solar system object.
The spacecraft carries a device, part of the successful
new technology system, which holds two cameras. One uses a
conventional charge-coupled device detector, the other a new
technology detector. The test camera, though performing its
initial tests successfully, wasn't equipped to deal with the
very dark object that Braille turned out to be. Small bodies
like asteroids and comets are still a mystery. Since they're
so small and distant, their exact size and shape can't usually
be determined from Earth. Deep Space 1 plans to use its tried-
and-true CCD camera to try to snap photos of Borrelly. The
team will send commands to the new software to stop using the
test camera and start using the CCD camera, which will take a
larger picture with more light.
In late 1999, after the successful end of its primary
mission, Deep Space 1 lost its star tracker, and the
spacecraft had to be reconfigured to use the photographic
camera to orient itself by the stars around it. In order to
take pictures of Borrelly, the camera can't align the
spacecraft and snap photos of the comet at the same time.
Instead, the spacecraft will have to rely on its fiber-optic
gyroscopes to help maintain its orientation. But the gyros are
not accurate enough by themselves, so the new software will
try to correct for those inaccuracies. The new software is
designed to help the camera stay pointed at the comet's
nucleus during the 15 minutes that the camera will attempt to
observe the comet.
 
Deep Space 1 Mission Status
Wednesday, April 4, 2001
The innovative engine now propelling NASA's Deep Space 1
spacecraft toward its ambitious September encounter with Comet
Borrelly just won't give up, having now run for more than
10,000 hours -- 50 times beyond its originally required
lifetime.
A working replica of the Deep Space 1 ion engine has
logged in even more hours at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
Pasadena, Calif., where the mission is managed.
The spacecraft's engine was only required to complete 200
hours of operation in flight to prove itself a success. On
March 21, it passed the 10,000-hour mark. It's expected to
pass 14,000 hours by the end of its extended mission to Comet
Borrelly.
The ion engine works by first removing an electron from
the gas xenon, then using a pair of electrically charged grids
to shoot the ionized gas out at more than 35,000 meters per
second (78,000 miles per hour). The engine is one of a dozen
important new technologies that the successful Deep Space 1
mission officially finished testing in 1999. Now that Deep
Space 1 has been approved for a risky extended mission to
Comet Borrelly, the long-lived ion engine will take the
spacecraft near the comet. Similar ion engines may be used on
future space missions, particularly missions to comets and
asteroids where the ion engine's high fuel economy is
important for precise navigation to the small bodies.
"The ground-based xenon ion engine has run for about
15,500 hours of testing time since the test began in early
October 1998," said Dr. John Anderson of JPL, the ion engine
test lead engineer. "That's more than 150 percent of the time
it was designed to last."
"The results from Deep Space 1 and testing on the ground
show that ion engines can be terrifically effective," said
JPL's Dr. Marc Rayman, the project manager of Deep Space 1.
"Now I'm looking forward to future spacecraft that use ion
engines surpassing Deep Space 1's record as they undertake
still more exciting missions."
Engineers partly attribute the secrets to the ion
engine's long life to a slight increase in the flow of xenon
through the engine early in the testing phase. "This reduced
the amount of wear on the engine, and yet didn't significantly
affect the engine's efficiency," said Dr. John Brophy, manger
of NASA's Solar Electric Propulsion Technology Applications
Readiness project.
Anderson began testing the ground-based ion engine when
it was shipped to JPL from Hughes, which is now part of
Boeing, in 1998. "We'd like to test it until the end of its
life. Then we'll see how to make these engines last even
longer," he said. He had also tested an earlier version of
the ion engine, beginning in 1996.
The ion engine is tested for about 75 percent of the time
over the two and a half years of the test, Anderson said, with
other time spent on running diagnostic tests, and defrosting
the xenon propellant that had become frozen in the vacuum
system. At first, the engine was run at just more than half of
its capacity, about 1.5 kilowatts, and then upped to full
capacity, 2.3 kilowatts. The next phase of the test will be to
run the engine at its lowest thrust level to demonstrate the
engine's ability to run at low power near the end of its life,
Anderson said.
Deep Space 1 has operated its ion engine between 520
watts and 1.9 kilowatts, in part depending upon the
spacecraft's distance from the Sun during its flight in space.
Deep Space 1's ion engine now also helps the spacecraft
maintain its orientation relative to the stars, so it remains
on for 99 percent of the time.
