
What's New and What's Old? The History of the Tutorial
What's 
and What's Old? The History of the Tutorial
Magha Puja Day (Thailand), 4 March 02 -- 
- The 1.4 version of the 
 Java 2 Platform Standard Edition was released recently. We're in the
 process of updating the 
 Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail to 1.4.
 The Full-Screen Exclusive Mode API 
 covers a brand new API in the 1.4 release; programmers who write games or 
 other graphic-intensive applications should read this trail.
 
- Lots of miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. 
Underdog Day (World), 19 December 01 -- Maintenance Release
- We removed our survey from the Web site. We want to thank everyone for their
 thoughtful responses. Your feedback will help us improve the Tutorial 
 and plan for the future. 
 
- Lots of miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos, including updates
 in the Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail.
Chulalongkorn Day (Thailand), 23 October 01 --
- New survey! Please spend a few minutes 
 filling out our survey. Your feedback will help us improve the Tutorial 
 and plan for the future. We've also included some localization 
 questions to help us learn what languages you'd like us to provide
 translations in.
- Lots of miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Golden Week (Japan), 3 May 01 --
- New lesson! 
 User Interfaces that Swing: A Quick Start Guide. 
 is a quick start guide to using Swing components to build user interfaces. 
 It is built around several progressively complicated examples. (This lesson started life 
 as a chapter in our latest book, The Java Tutorial, Third Edition.)
- Another new lesson! For programmers who write games or other graphic-intensive apps, check out
 the new Full-Screen Exclusive Mode API lesson. 
 This API will be included in the 1.4 release of the Java 2 Standard Edition. 
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Glarius Festival (Switzerland), 1 April 01 --
- Completely updated the 
 I/O: Reading and Writing (but no 'rithmetic) lesson.
- Reorganized the order of lessons in the Essential trail.
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Minor Update, 28 Feb 01 --
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Rolling Blackouts Release, 3 Feb 01 --
- Added Questions and Exercises for all trails included in the new book, 
 The Java Tutorial Third Edition.
- Added new book pages to support the new book, 
 The Java Tutorial Third Edition. (The TOC includes a handy set of links
 to all the answers for the Questions & Exercises.)
- Updated the 
 Getting Started trail.
 We updated the material for 1.3 and added Questions and Exercises.
- Updated the 
 Interfaces and Packages lesson.
 We updated the material for 1.3 and added Questions and Exercises.
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Edvard Munch's Birthday, 12 Dec 00 --
- Updated the 
 Learning the Java Language trail.
 We updated the material for 1.3 and added Questions and Exercises
 to the Language Basics section.
- Updated the
 servlets trail
 to refer to the Tomcat 3.x and 4.0 implementations. These releases support 
 the 2.2 and 2.3 versions of Java Servlet technology.
- The Tomcat version of the Servlets Bookstore Example can now be 
 downloaded as a zip file.
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Friday the 13th, 13 Oct 00 --
- Added information to the
 IDL trail
 about the idlj compiler, 
 which is part of the 1.3 release.
 Updated links to the idlj compiler, its documentation, and the OMG site.
- Updated the
 servlets trail
 to refer to Java Servlet 2.2 API Docs.
- Updated the 
 Bingo example
 to fix some thread safety issues.
- Updated the API links in most of the basic trails
 to point to the 1.3 versions (instead of 1.2).
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Tutorial Fifth Anniversary, 31 May 00 --
- Added Werner van Mook's Mac adaptation of the
 instructions for writing and compiling your first programs:
 First Cup of Java (Mac OS).
- Added questions and exercises to the end of the 
 Getting Started trail
 and to the first three lessons in the 
 Learning the Java Language trail.
- Rewrote portions of the first lessons in the
 Learning the Java Language trail.
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Zeppo Marx's Birthday (1901), 25 February 00 --
- Did reconstructive work on the Learning the Java Language trail.
 Lots of new examples added. Cleaned up.
- Fixed a subtle bug in SwingWorker source code.
 See How to Use Threads
 in the Swing trail.
- Adjusted JTable page, examples to reflect 1.3.
 See How to Use Tables
 in the Swing trail.
- Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos.
Thanksgiving (USA), 24 November 99 --
- Added a new lesson to the JavaBeans(tm) trail,
 Using the BeanContext API,
 that covers The Extensible Runtime Containment and Services Protocol.
- Added some information about JTable in 1.3 in the Swing trail.
 Also, added a new 1.3 JTable example.
- Began updating and rewriting the Learning the Java Language trail.
 This work includes adding exercises and questions to each section.
- Added the glossary
 from the java.sun.com website and began linking
 terms to it.
- Did a partial conversion to our new icon scheme for identifying
 the target of our links.
 
 
- 
 looks up a glossary term
 
- 
 links to a .java file
 
- 
 link to a page within the javadocs hosted at java.sun.com
 
- 
 links to a page outside of the tutorial
 
- 
 links to a page in a different lesson within the tutorial
 
 Intra-tutorial links (black) update the page in the current browser window,
 while extra-tutorial links (colored links) bring up a new browser window.
Vegetarian Day (World), 1 October 99 --
- Removed the survey. Thank you for your responses.
- Added a really big index
 that lists every content page in the tutorial in order.
- Added a resources page
 that lists Java programming resources outside of the tutorial.
- Added Your First Cup of Java (for UNIX).
- Added feedback form.
 Please use this form to contact us instead of sending mail directly.
 It will help direct your mail to the right person.
- Modified our tools to provide automatic next and previous links,
 automatic page titles, and automatic page headers and footers.
 This change should be largely unnoticeable to readers except that
 these page elements should contain fewer errors and inconsistencies.
- Created a tool that automatically generated trail-level TOC pages.
 This change should be largely unnoticeable to readers except that
 these pages should contain fewer errors and inconsistencies.
- Fixed various broken links, typographical, and other errors.
- Put all of the images on the
 Swing Components Visual Index.
- Updated API links to point to Java 2 SDK docs.
- Thanks to our two delightful summer interns, Ray and Indra,
 we were able to do a lot of clean up including fixing omissions,
 making clarifications, adding examples, and so on.
- We did a pass and cleaned up most of the pending issues.
 The only remaining pendings are in the BINGO lesson,
 which has not been completed,
 and in one of the book pages for the Second Edition.
 We hope, but do not promise, to clean up the remaining ones
 for the next tutorial update.
National Smile Week :), 3 August 99 --
- Added the 2D applets to the
 list of applets
 page, for a total of 77 applets in the Tutorial.
 Also, provided Java Plug-in tags for running the 2D applets.
- Added detailed instructions
 for compiling and running a Java program in Windows.
- Posted a survey.
- Created a tutorial announcements mailing list to which tutorial
 readers can subscribe. See
 Get Announcements about The java Tutorial.
- Added common problems pages to some trails that didn't have them.
- Clarified and fixed various errors reported by readers.
Fiesta de San Fermin (Spain), 7 July 99 --
- Fixed most of the pending issues in the Swing trail.
 Fixed a few pending issues in other trails.
- Fixed some problems with one example in the security trail.
- Made some minor modifications to the page format
 and did some clean up on our tools.
 This has minor repercussions for API links.
- Cleaned up the image directories and removed unused images.
 This reduced the size of the tutorial by about 1.5 Meg.
- Added coverage of JSDK 2.1 in the servlets trail.
- Modified our coverage of finalization in the
 Java language trail and in effected examples.
- Fixed typos, broken links, a couple of broken applets,
 and other reader reported problems.
- Updated the instructions for running the BINGO program.
- Became a mirror for WinHelp version of tutorial.
Memorial Day (USA), 28 May 99 --
- Announced the Swing book.
- Due to overwhelming reader feedback,
 we changed our format again.
 We removed the left-hand border and modified the headers
 and footers to include a link to the search page.
- Fixed typos and other errors in the Learning Java,
 Essential Classes, and Custom Networking
 trails in response to reader e-mail.
Lei Day (Hawaii) update, 5 May 99 --
We made some changes to our new page format in resonse to reader feedback.
- Because of reader feedback, we added
 a navigation area to the bottom of each page.
- Implemented a max width of 460 for images to prevent
 large images from creating a page that is too wide.
Lei Day (Hawaii), 1 May 99 --
- Modified our page format. It now includes
 search on every content page.
- Created examples indexes for all examples in the Swing trail.
 If readers like it, we plan to do this for all trails.
- Reviewed the code for all example programs in the Swing trail.
- Did a final pass in preparation for converting from HTML to
 book format. This included everything from fixing typos to
 tweaking comments in source files to adding a few paragraphs
 of new information. 
- Added a second custom layout manager example: GraphPaperLayout.
- Added new examples and content to the 2d trail.
World Culture Day, 12 March 99 --
We marched through the Swing trail preparing for copyedit.
Here's what we did:
- Internally reviewed and edited all .html pages in the Swing trail
 in the first 7 lessons. In some cases, this amounted to a major
 rewrite.
- Added *a lot* of material to the component how-to pages
 that covers aspects of the components that had previously been omitted.
 Typically, the additional material covers more advanced component
 features.
- Reviewed example code, ran all examples,
 and modified as appropriate.
- Researched and resolved many pending issues. (Some still remain.)
- Performed "example audits" and updated the tables of examples.
- Reviewed and updated API tables everywhere.
- Fixed various bugs and clarity issues reported by readers.
- Filled in "glue" pages.
- Added information about common problems in many places.
- Tied sections together better by adding links.
- Made the layout and events sections similar to how-to
 pages by adding API and examples tables.
Joe's 40th Birthday, 21 Jan 99
- Updated the drawing lesson to Swing.
- Made various improvements to the Swing trail.
- Some front page cleanup.
Winter Solstice, 21 Dec 98
- Added Search Capability!
- Added preliminary draft of Converting to Swing lesson.
- Added links to resources and examples for Drag 'n Drop.
- Some image clean up, which shrunk the tutorial by about .75 Megs.
- Made various improvements to the Swing trail,
- Fixed various broken link and typos.
Enlightenment of the Buddha (Japan), 8 Dec 98
- Minor typo and broken link fixes.
- Getting first two lessons in Swing trail ready for copyedit.
- Removed all .class files from tutorial except those necessary
 for running applets. This shrank the tutorial by 1.5 Megs.
Day of the Artisans (Mexico), 4 Dec 98
- Note: CD-ROM build.
 This is the version of the tutorial
 that appears on the CD-ROM for
 The Java Tutorial Continued.
- Integrated all copyedits and other changes from the
 continued book into 5 trails:
 overview, internationalization,
 sound, 2D, and RMI.
- Made lots of little improvements to the Swing trail,
 especially in swingOverview and swingStart.
 Reorganized material about text.
- Updated programs to use Swing 1.1
 (from Swing 1.0.3 and Swing 1.1 Beta 3)
 and JDK 1.2.
Aron's Birthday, 6 Nov 98
- Substantially reorganized the
 Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail.
 The Swing-based User Interface trail replaces
 the old AWT-based User Interface trail,
 which is available only by download.
 We still have some work to do to complete the transition.
 Please bear with us during construction!
- Miscellaneous fixes to typos, broken links, and program bugs.
Universal Children's Day, 5 Oct 98
- Converted the examples and text in
 Laying Out Components within a Container
 to use Swing.
- Several updates to the Using Swing Components lesson.
- Converted many applets to use Java Plug-in.
- Updated to JDK 1.1.7 and Swing 1.1 Beta 3.
- Converted old UI trail to a downloadable archive.
- Removed reference objects trail.
- Miscellaneous fixes to typos, broken links, and program bugs.
Labor Day Release, 7 Sept 98
- Added Overview of the JDK.
- Added Java Sound trail.
- Added Working with Java 2D Graphics trail.
- Added JDBC Database Access trail.
- Added Using Java RMI trail.
- Reviewed and edited Programming with Java IDL trail.
- Added new material and examples to the
 Using Swing Components
 lesson.
Laine's Birthday Release, An Update, 14 Aug 98
- Added Programming with Java IDL trail.
- Added Security in JDK 1.2 trail.
- Reviewed and edited various trails and lesson.
- Added new material and examples to the
 Using Swing Components
 lesson.
- Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links.
 Made minor improvements to text and examples all over the place.
Laine's Birthday Release, 3 Aug 98
- Added Collections trail.
- Added Servlets trail.
- Added The Java Extensions Mechanism trail.
- Added Reference Objects trail.
- Added new material and examples to the
 Using Swing Components
 lesson.
 Completed technical reviews for many pages and integrated
 engineering feedback.
- Reviewed and edited
 javabeans and
 jar trails.
- Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links.
 Made minor improvements to text and examples all over the place.
The Summer Solstice Release, 26 June 98
- Added a lot of new material and examples to the
 Using Swing Components
 lesson.
- Updated information about
 hashCode and
 equals.
- Added a bios page that contains
 information about our contributing authors.
- Reviewed and edited
 internationalization,
 reflection, and
 native trails.
- Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links.
 Improved some text and some examples.
Nettle Day (UK), 29 May 98
- Added JAR trail.
- Added 4 new topics to the internationalization trail:
 comparing strings,
 text boundaries,
 conversions, and a
 checklist for
 internationalizing existing programs.
- Added demo programs to the date and number formatting lessons.
- Reorganized JavaBeans trail.
- Added a lot of new material and examples to the
 Using Swing Components
 lesson.
- Reviewed native methods
 trail and made associated changes and fixes.
- Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links.
 Improved some text and some examples.
Arbor Day, 24 April 98
- WooHoo! New front page!
 New Trail map!
- New look for trail-level TOC.html files.
 Also, removed lesson-level TOC.html files. Instead
 we now provide a link to the appropriate place within
 the trail-level TOC.html files.
- Continued to add new pages to the
 Using Swing Components
 lesson.
- Added a new lesson to the internationalizaton trail
 covering formatting.
- Added trail on reflection.
- Added some information to the
 native methods trail for
 Mac programmers.
- Fixed typos, broken links,
 and various other minor problems with content
- Removed the old internationalization trail.
- Removed old native methods trail...provide a
 downloadable archive instead.
- Updated errata page
 for second edition of the book.
The Vernal Equinox, 20 March 98
- 
Changed the background color to white.
- 
Finished integrating figures from the new, second, edition of the book.
Figures and images are now kept together at the top-level instead of
sprinkled throughout the lesson directories.
- 
Added book.html
and related pages for the second editon of the book.
Changed the page design of the book.html
and related pages for the first edition to match the second edition.
- 
Did a bunch of work behind the scenes on our tools and processes.
This is the first update of the tutorial from our new workspace
with our new makefiles and build process.
- 
Because of our lovely new tools, we can now easily
provide a downloadable archive of all of the examples
in the book.
See Download the Tutorial
for the ftp links.
- 
Fixed various typos and other minor problems with content.
- 
Updated the 
Swing
material relating to the JDK 1.2.
Saturnalia, 22 December 97
 The long awaited update!--
 this is a major update of the tutorial.
 Almost every file has been touched in some way.
 
 This release of the online tutorial corresponds with the
 release of the 2nd edition of The Java Tutorial book
 and is the version of the online tutorial that appears on
 the CD-ROM that accompanies that book.
 
 The changes are in progress, but to a large extent
 we have integrated 1.1 information into
 the existing trails, lessons, and examples. This is
 in sharp contrast to the 1.1 notes that were littered
 throughout the previous version of the tutorial and
 were, admittedly, somewhat confusing.
 
 Also, we are in the process of integrating copyedit and
 other changes made to the book version, into the online version.
 This has been completed thoroughly in some areas of the online
 tutorial, and spottily in other areas. We will continue
 with this process throughout the coming months.
 
 New lessons in this tutorial that first appeared in print
 in the 2nd edition of The Java Tutorial book:
 
 
- 
 The Java Phenomenon
 
- 
 Migrating to 1.1
 
- 
 A Preview of Things to Come
 
 New trails for this version of the tutorial
 that haven't yet made it to print:
 
 
- 
 Added a Putting It All Together trail
 that provides a large, real-world, client/server example and analyzes it.
 
- 
 Got a totally new JavaBeans Tutorial
 by Andy Quinn!
 
8 July 97
- One of the goals of the tutorial is to document the latest and greatest
 from JavaSoft as it is released.
 To this end, we've added a lesson about
 Using Swing Components.
 The Swing release is an early release of part of the JFC.
 This information is only available from the Java Tutorial.
- Added a trail, Java Security 1.1,
 covering the new 1.1 security APIs.
- Updated the The JavaBeans(tm) Tutorial by Greg Voss.
- Promoted Writing Global Programs to
 a trail. This trail is still in progress, but it contains new material
 including several excellent demos from
 Taligent.
- Added information about the 1.1 release in our
 To 1.1 -- And Beyond! trail.
- Made the usual fixes to broken links, typos, and other errata.
14 May 97
We improved and added more 1.1 information in existing sections.
We added more examples of and information about
the various types of event listeners to 
Handling Events.
We also fixed the AroundTheWorld applet used in
Writing Global Programs.
28 April 97
We added a new trail,
To 1.1 -- And Beyond!,
which is the headquarters for features added to the JDK after 1.0.
Also, the Learning the Java Language
and Essential Java Classes trails
now have notes that point out material that is affected by 1.1.
And finally, we reorganized our top-level files to make them more
accessible.
3 March 97
Added a brand new trail introducing JavaBeans!
This trail, JavaBeans Tutorial, written by Greg Voss,
shows you the ins and outs of developing programs
using the JavaBeans technology.
19 February 97
- 
Our new "guest author" program debuts in this release of the tutorial
with a completely new trail about
writing native methods by Beth Stearns. Check it out:
Using the Java Native Interface (JNI).
- 
Merged copyediting changes from the book into the on-line version in
these two trails:
Getting Started and
Writing Applets.
- 
Updated
Writing Global Programs
to work with the FCS JDK 1.1 release.
- 
The usual miscellaneous fixes.
24 December 96
Miscellaneous fixes.
Also, added a new lesson describing new features of the JDK for 
Writing Global Programs.
6 June 96 -- Released the Sixth DRAFT.
This draft is the version on which the book version is based.
The book and online versions aren't exactly the same --
for example, none of the copyeditor's changes 
have made it into the online tutorial yet.
Also, the online tutorial's figures haven't been updated
to be the same as those in the book.
Notable content changes since the fifth draft include:
- Finished the Common Problems pages.
- Added information on the Macintosh JDK.
- Added an applet anatomy section to Getting Started.
- Improved the talk server example in the applet communication lesson.
28 Mar 96 -- Released the Fifth DRAFT.
Many pages in this draft have been rewritten
or expanded upon.
(If you've sent us comments and don't see them reflected in this draft,
please don't be insulted -- 
we haven't finished incorporating reviewer comments.)
Some of the notable changes include:
- Revised Application Anatomy lesson
 and moved it to the Getting Started trail:
 The Anatomy of a Java Application.
 We plan to write an equivalent section
 for applets.
- Did major rewrites of the following lessons in the Java trail:
 The Nuts and Bolts of the Java
 Language and
 Objects and Classes in Java.
- Added new pages to the applet overview:
 Adding an Applet to an HTML Page
 and
 Summary.
- Beefed up the applet threads pages:
 Threads in Applets.
- Added a discussion of peers to the UI trail:
 Details of the Component Architecture.
- Added material to the native methods trail,
 Integrating Native Methods into Java Programs,
 including passing data into and out of native methods
 and accessing Java objects.
- Removed some trails: comparison to C/C++, troubleshooting, and tools.
 This information has been (or will be) incorporated into other
 trails/lessons.
4 Mar 96 -- Released the Fourth DRAFT
Among the normal bug, typo and broken link fixes, this draft includes
revisions to many of our old trails and lessons, plus this new material:
- Added a new lesson to 
 Integrating Native Methods into Java Programs
 trail.
- Added new material to and/or wrote from scratch 4 lessons in the
 Writing Applets
 trail. Including:
 Creating an Applet User Interface,
 Communicating with Other Programs,
 Understanding Applet Capabilities and Restrictions,
 and
 Finishing an Applet.
 (The first three have since been reorganized into two trails:
 Taking Advantage of the Applet API
 and
 Practical Considerations when Writing Applets.
24 Feb 96 -- Released the Third DRAFT
Among the normal bug, typo and broken link fixes, this draft includes
revisions to many of our old trails and lessons, plus this new material:
- Added a lot of new material to 
 Creating an Applet User Interface.
- Added new lessons to the 
 Creating a User Interface
 trail. Including:
 
 
- Laying Out Components within a Container
 Please note that 3 pages are still under construction.
 
- Using Components, the GUI Building Blocks
 Each component now has a page describing how to use it.
 
- Working with Graphics
 There's now information on how to draw primitive graphics (including text)
 and images, plus information on performing animation. The animation pages
 include information on how to eliminate flashing, using update() and double
 buffering. They also have information on using MediaTracker.
 
- Added a new trail:
 Custom Networking
- Added a new lesson,
 Input and Output Streams
 to the
 Essential Java Classes trail.
23 Jan 96 -- Updated the Second DRAFT
- Updated links to point to new FCS1.0 JDK release.
- Fixed bugs where some applets and sources files were missing.
- Miscellaneous fixes of typos, bugs, and broken links. 
18 Jan 96 -- Updated the Second DRAFT
- Changed the Creating a User
 Interface
 trail to reflect the event changes introduced in Beta2.
 Specifically, keyboard event handlers now have to return false,
 unless they want the event to be dropped.
 The Conversion example program and the overview were affected.
- Revised the structure of the tutorial 
 to reflect what we're going to be able to finish
 by the time the book version is due to the printer.
- Added a very preliminary lesson on Java's object features--
 Java Objects.
- Fixed various typos, bugs and broken links.
12 Dec 95 -- Updated the Second DRAFT
- 
Made the few changes necessary to reflect Beta2 instead of Beta.
- 
Fixed various typos, bugs and broken links.
- 
Added a new lesson,
Handling Errors using Exceptions, in the
Essential Java Classes
trail.
13 Nov 95 -- Updated the Second DRAFT
- 
Made the few changes necessary to reflect Beta instead of Pre-Beta.
- 
Changed the name of this document from
"The Java Programmer's Guide" to
"The Java Language Tutorial: Object-Oriented Programming for the Internet."
Why the long name?
This document is going to be published as a book,
and we wanted to make sure the title
was as descriptive as possible,
without requiring much prior knowledge of the potential buyer.
- 
Added ALT text to our link graphics, 
so that people using non-graphical browsers
can understand the information the graphic was conveying.
- 
Added a new lesson,
Laying Out Components Within a Container, in the
Creating a User Interface
trail.
2 Oct 95 -- Released the Second DRAFT
- 
Everything was updated to reflect the new APIs (except for The "run:"
Protocol Handler and The "text/plain" Content Handler
in the Getting Started
trail).
- 
We fixed many typos, clarified many obfuscations, fixed
broken links and miscommunications.
- 
We got a face-lift with new icons and a new page design.
- 
And, we added these trails and lessons:
- 
The
Writing Applets
trail has a new lesson:
Overview of Applets
which describes
how applets work and how you use the Applet class to create an applet.
- 
The new
Creating a User Interface
trail has two new lessons:
Overview of UI Elements which
introduces you to the objects that the Java development environment
provides for building UIs, and 
Laying Out Components within a Container
which tells you how to use each of the Components provided in the AWT.
- 
We've also added the
Integrating Native Methods into Java Programs
trail that shows you how to integrate native methods
into your Java programs.
- 
And finally, we've added two new lessons:
Threads of Control
and
Object-Oriented Programming Concepts.
18 May 95
Released the First DRAFT
