
Java and JavaScript Programming, by Richard G Baldwin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following is a small sampling of comments taken from E-mail messages
that I have received and from postings in the various Java news groups.
The last names were removed to preserve the anonymity of the sender.
I am very pleased that these messages originated in countries from all
around the world. The WWW has truly made the world a smaller place.
I will begin with my favorite message, hoping that it may be a sign
that the free exchange of information is a small step toward eventual world
peace. - And thank you Mr. or Miss chaojian of ShiJiaZhuang HeBei province,
China.
Thanks for your suggestion, Mr.Richard Baldwin. I hope I will obtain
the more knowledge more help from you. Good lucky for you . -- (chaojian)
ShiJiaZhuang HeBei province,China
Thank you for the tip. I've just briefly checked out your site. You've
done an outstanding job of providing valuable information and guidance.
I'm looking forward to absorbing as much of it as I can. Thanks again.
-- Marek
I just looked in on your site Java/C/C++ Programming and added it to
my Bookmark list... I also sent your URL to the boss. thanks, -- fred
I have seen your informative follow-ups to various questions posted
on comp.lang.java.programming and was wondering if you would be able to
give me a quick answer on the following problem ...
The information you gave me about the handleEvent() function and threads
scheduling on Solaris has been very instructive. Thank you very much. --
Olivier 
Just thought I would take the time to tell you how helpful your site
has been to me over the past week or so. I am currently working on some
entry validation classes with 1.1 and your works on the new event handler
have been most helpful! Thanks! -- Jim 
I'm a Hong Kong student studying in University as a freshman. After
I have read your page that contains Java programming materials, I was very
excited about its rich content. I would like to put those material in my
homepage so that my friends and other interested students can read your
notes more easily and faster. ... I just use it as a teaching or reference
materials for my friends. Look forward to receive mail from you. Good day!
Regards, -- Nevin 
( I suggested that Nevin put a link on his page rather than making a
copy of my material which would quickly become outdated because I modify
and add to the material on almost a daily basis. Dick Baldwin)
Needless to say, this isn't really complete, but should give you an
idea of what to do. The WindowListener implementation is a little verbose,
... I recommend Richard Baldwin's web pages, they are quite useful for
this.
hi, just visited your Java turorial page. Excellent! Could you elabrate
on the topic you mentioned about possibility of event-style communication
between objects that are not screen-objects? ... Thanks a lot. -- Fuming
I just wanted to thank you for the work you are doing documenting the
areas of Java that are the current sore spots.
I like the tutorial/notes you put up. It's easy to read and understand.
Keep up the good work. -- Albert
Thanks for the assistance. With some help from the info on your web
site, I've managed to solve the problem that I was facing: I ended up using
...
Hi, I wanted to thank you for responding to my message in comp.lang.java.programmer
(object serialization)...Your website really holds a wealth of information....Especially
that one at geocities... thanks a ton.. i will book mark this and visit
it frequently. -- Tom
The -deprecated was what i was referring to also, and i have already
had a peek at your document "The Container Classes" I check your
page daily to see what's new, and since i'm on that subject I would like
to thank you for making said material available... it's great i've really
learned from it, I hope you continue on throughout the all the classes
in the JDK that would be a really nice referance, so once again thank you
and i am enjoying the Java, and you sir enjoy it also... you deserve it!
-- Wicket 
Many thanks for your excellent "Lecture Notes" on Java. I'm
taking a course in Java Programming at ... and I'm using your papers as
the main source of written information. Our coursebook is high on weight,
but low on info/weight ratio. 
(This message came from a student in a prestigious university in Europe.
I deleted the name of the university and the student's name just in case
her/his professor wrote the book.)
Hey, free information! I can't argue with that. Thank you for the recommendation...I
will spend some time at those URLs this evening. Sincerely, -- Steve
Your guide to the Event Modell of JDK 1.1 helped me a lot to understand
how event delegation works, I have read your information some days ago
already. But still I could not solve the problem until you pointed me to
a concept in Java what I did not understand before. -- Christian
As a new Java person, I bought a book which said it covered JDK 1.1.
It lied in some areas, especially that of Event Handling. I therefore need
some help... 
Thank you so very much(I know it's your job), but thanks for writing
a non-intellectual sounding (and you're a prof??(little student humour:-)
) ) explanation of the JDK1.1 that one doesn't need to have a PH.D to understand.
I find a lot of publication for Java is geared towards C programmers, and
I'm just out of highschool having taken a general course in grade 11 in
Cobol, and 4 mths Pascal at UWaterloo. Your page has proved easy to understand,
exhaustive, and an invaluable tool for my coop term as a Software Programmer.
Thank you -- sascha
Your tech notes on the web site are excellent material for learning
Java. I have a question to ask here regarding the focus control... Can
it be done? Thanks -- Tia
I looked at your source for "using reflection with serialization".
It is very helpful. Thank you, -- Dominic
Checked out that site. Wonderful.... I wish I had known about it before
I went out and purchased a book, which as you say in one of your sections
titled; 'A Caution on Purchasing Books'; is not worthwhile as pre-JDK 1.1(Final)
syntax has changed. Anyway, thanks again for directing me. Already it is
proving useful. I wish you all the best, -- Gordon 
I have briefly read your pages about inner classes and anonymous classes
for adding listeners and adapters. I think these pages are excellent. ...
-- Claes
Actually I solved the problem by referring to your Java Lesson itself
last nite. I was planning on send you an email later today thanking you
on posting the java lessons on the Web. I have been regularly going through
all your java lessons whenever I face some problems. Somehow I had missed
the object serialization lessons from your site earlier, but read through
it last nite. It was very well documented and I realized the mistake I
was making. Thanks a lot for your email. I have been your secret student
for at least a month now. I find the lessons a very handy reference for
the project I am working on. ... Anyway, thanks a lot again and I will
be frequently visiting the java lesson site. -- Uday
As suggested, and keen to learn Java as quickly as possible, I am making
good use of your site. I have been looking at Lecture Notes #80: Event
Handling in JDK 1.1. The documentation is very informative and easy to
follow. I have type in the first example (Event08.java), and it works fine,
and what's more I understand how it works. It is a much more logical way
of doing this as opposed to the Win API which almost forces you to throw
many near identical C 'switch' commands into the cook pot. I have two questions...Thanks
in advance, -- Gordon 
It looks like you were the victim of false advertising. The code you
have is the *old* 1.0.2 event handling scheme, not the new 1.1 event handling.
... We must wait for some *reputable* publishers to come out with books
covering 1.1. In the mean time, I suggest you take a look at Richard Baldwin's
web site...
(This was part of a post on one of the Java newsgroups.)
I would like to congratulate with you for your java lessons! I found
them very well done (even if I've not read all of them yet). I find especially
useful to have a good overview on new JDK1.1 features, but I will also
read the previous lectures to complete my knowledge. ... bye, -- Roberto
Hi....thanks! you hit it right on the head. The problem was I was stupidly
missing the command-line thing...i had never heard of a "java"
command that could be run through the DOS shell. I tried just what you
said and it works...then i tried it on the talk program i was mucking around
with, and that works too! To serve java, I suppose you always need to run
the java command? thank you so much -- shana
Just in case someone might think to razz Dick about his repeated posts
about his instructional materal, BE IT KNOWN that some of us look for his
posts to let us know when he has put the next new lesson up on his web
page. So these are NOT spams. (Just incase someone was trigger happy).
Heh. -- Garfield
I want to take a moment and thank you for putting your supplemental
class information about Java up on the Web. It has really helped me in
learning the new JDK 1.1 Delegation Event Model. I check daily to see if
any new material is available. Thank You, -- Tim
I have enjoyed greatly the material on 1.1 that you have made available
on the net. Thanks for sharing it with the world. -- Bill
Thanks for a very helpful web site! -- Steve
Hi, Dick! Just a quick note of thanks for all the documentation you've
made available on Java. It's great. Regards, -- Vince 
Well, that's it for now. Hope that you find my site as helpful as the
folks listed above. Check back often because I add new material on almost
a daily basis. 
I look forward to receiving your comments as well. My goal is to make
this the most useful source of Java programming information available anywhere.
You can help me achieve that goal by making suggestions for improvement.
Enjoy the Java.
 
 
 
[ Home ]
[ Tutorials ]
[ Author ]
[ Training ]
[ Reviews ]
[ Links ]
[ Legal ]
 
