 
 
 
 Devicetop.com - Contests
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 login
 
 password
 
 
 
 logout 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 join devicetop! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 home > contest 
 0 pts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTERACTIVE 
 SHOPPING SERVICES (T-Commerce Application)
 
(1) 
 Product Overview
 
 
 
- High 
 level product description
 
 
Interactive 
 Shopping Services for iTV is an application, which allows users to purchase 
 products while watching their favorite television programs or channels.
 
 
 
- Solution 
 this product provides 
 
 
 
End-user 
 - Offers viewers the option to purchase items they see in television programs. 
 This offers an alternative to purchasing items over the Internet, catalog 
 shopping, and even to the traditional television shopping network. Viewers 
 are able to purchase merchandise while watching a television program that 
 already targets their interests. 
 
For example, 
 if a viewer is watching the popular sitcom "Friends" and they 
 admire the sweater Ross is wearing, they could click on the "shopping 
 mode" icon and see how much the sweater costs, which store it is 
 sold at, and purchase it at that very moment. Likewise, if a sports fanatic 
 is watching the Golf Channel, they could possibly buy the golf clubs that 
 Tiger Woods uses in his US PGA Tournament if they choose to watch television 
 in "shopping mode".
 
This application 
 drives impulse buying (see stats needed on Home Shopping Network below).
 
 Advertisers -This application offers advertisers a powerful tool 
 since viewers actually choose to view advertising. For example, a person 
 watching a television program and clicks on the "shopping mode" 
 button would actually want to be exposed to the advertised merchandise 
 and branding material. It is very easy for advertisers to see more direct 
 results. Advertising can be extremely targeted to each television program 
 as advertisers typically know the details of the target audience of each 
 television program. When they find the appropriate target audience, they 
 typically purchase a 20 second commercial spot. They can't guarantee that 
 their audience isn't getting up from the television on commercial break. 
 The Interactive Shopping Services, allows viewers to request to view their 
 information and perhaps make an impulse buy while watching the show. The 
 reaction time from advertisement to point of sale is almost real-time.
 
 Service Providers - This is a favorable application to service 
 providers. First of all, this application doesn't take the viewer away 
 from the television, which is important criteria to service providers. 
 Second, it offers great revenue potential since the service provider could 
 charge a minimal administration fee (1% or 2%) to the merchant for each 
 order placed.
 
This application 
 would be easy for service providers to implement, which makes this a very 
 attractive application to service providers. The effort required on their 
 end to put this type of application together is as simple as using authoring 
 tools for a web page. It is low cost to maintain, making this application 
 very appealing to them. 
 
 
 
- Target 
 end user and customer of this product
 
 
 
The primary 
 target end users for the Interactive Shopping Services are all adult viewers 
 of television. This target audience varies in ages (must be 18+), with 
 different backgrounds and interests. 
 
 The target customer for this product is a service provider. There are 
 two different types of business models for this application, which are 
 offered to service providers (see Customer Profile section).
 
 
 (2) Product Profile
 
 
 
- High-level 
 product objectives of this product
 
 
1. Allow 
 viewers the ability to purchase merchandise from the television programs 
 they watch.
 2. Enable users to access proper product information in order for them 
 to make purchasing decisions - product description, image, pricing, and 
 branding information.
 3. Allow users the ability to use such a service, while there are security 
 measures in place in order to restrict it from children and other members 
 of their household.
 4. Enable advertisers an option that entices potential customers to choose 
 to be exposed to their advertising/branding information.
 5. Enables advertisers the ability to sell their merchandise to the viewer 
 throughout the television program. 
 6. Offer service providers a lucrative new service, which will offer great 
 new revenue potential.
 
 
 
- Overall 
 functionality 
 
 
 
The following 
 are functionality items, which at a minimum needs to be in your application. 
 You are more than welcome to add more functionality into your game application 
 if you so choose. 
 
 
(1) View 
 merchandise for sale
 (2) View information about merchandise for sale
 (3) Purchase merchandise for sale
 (4) Confirmation of purchase
 
 
 
- Details 
 of each functionality 
 item (both primary and secondary) 
 
 
 
View 
 Merchandise for Sale
 
 This function allows viewers the ability to enter into "shopping 
 mode", while watching their favorite television programs. Once a 
 viewer is in shopping mode, they are exposed to any merchandise for sale 
 throughout the duration of the television program. 
 
 The service provider would add several xlets to the carousel at the beginning 
 of the television program to encourage people to click on the "shopping 
 mode" icon. After x number of minutes, the service provider would 
 take several of the xlets off the carousel to replace data spots with 
 product information (pricing, description, image, branding, etc). The 
 xlet would continue to be on the carousel in order to encourage new viewers 
 throughout the program to click on "shopping mode". 
 
 View Information about Merchandise for Sale
 
 This function allows viewers to access all relevant information in order 
 to make an educated purchasing decision. Information such as product description, 
 product pricing, branding information, and an image would be of interest 
 to the viewer. 
 
 During the program, the xlet reads the sequence script and retrieves information 
 from the carousel in time to display the notification that an item is 
 available for sale. At that time, the xlet should have already read the 
 data needed to display the proper content if the viewer is to click on 
 the "more" button (pricing information, image, product description, 
 branding information, etc). It is mandatory for the xlet to have read 
 all data needed before displaying a notification.
 
 When building this application, the sequence of items shown, must be in 
 context with the television programming. For instance, don't show pots 
 unless you are in a kitchen scene in the television program. 
 
 The data should be delivered to the viewer seamlessly. If the xlet misses 
 a piece of merchandise on the carousel, the xlet should not give any indication 
 to the viewer that an item has been missed. 
 
 An example script could include the following:
 
 1:00, add kettle, ID#412356, show image, show price, show description
 5:35, add sweater, ID#415262, show image, show price, show description
 10:00, remove all 
 16:20, add pots, ID#526142, show image, show price, show description
 
Need data 
 for each piece of the script, which could include product description, 
 pricing, image, branding information, etc. 
 
 There must be some indication to the viewer when a new item of merchandise 
 is added to the carousel to be viewed. 
 
 It is also important to note that you do not want to interrupt the viewers 
 experience too much throughout the television program. Perhaps there would 
 only be five pieces of merchandise showcased throughout the duration of 
 a 30-minute television program. The viewer will not have control over 
 the items available for sale. This will be handled through the advertisers, 
 service providers, and content providers. 
 
 
Purchase 
 Merchandise for Sale
 
 
This function 
 allows the user to purchase merchandise while watching a television program.
 
The xlet 
 would tell the set-top box to add the product ID# to smart card. When 
 the set-top box uses its modem at midnight to connect to the service provider, 
 it would say "bill me for X items purchased", with the associated 
 product ID#s. The service provider would then do the administration function 
 of contacting the appropriate stores to ensure the purchases go through. 
 
 
It is important 
 that the viewer is exposed to the entire pricing structure before hitting 
 the "Buy Now" button. The full price should include price, taxes, 
 and shipping fees. 
 
 Confirmation of Purchase 
 
This function 
 allows the viewer to receive a confirmation receipt of their purchases. 
 This could be done through email or an iTV function. 
 
Additional 
 Functionality Note: Security measures are needed for this application 
 in order to control children and other people in the household from making 
 unapproved purchases. The final stages of the purchasing process should 
 include the viewer typing in a password. The password protection procedure 
 will need to be handled by another application, since it wouldn't be appropriate 
 for the Interactive Shopping Services application to have access to the 
 viewers' password.
 
(3) 
 Design Considerations
 
There is 
 no server side aspect to this application. The xlets, scripts, and merchandise 
 information is all stored on the carousel, which is transmitted alongside 
 normal TV programming. 
 
SEE FLOW 
 OF CONTENT (LINK NEEDED)
 This diagram indicates the flow of content from the carousel and video 
 stream right down to the television. 
 
SEE CAROUSEL 
 OVERVIEW (LINK NEEDED)
 This diagram is a more detailed look of the data included in the carousel 
 for the Interactive Shopping Services application. Information would include 
 xlets, scripts, product pricing, product descriptions, product order numbers, 
 product images, and branding information.
 
SEE PURCHASE 
 OVERVIEW (LINK NEEDED)
 This diagram is a detailed look of the purchase process. Once the viewer 
 decides to purchase an item, that product ID# and other information is 
 stored on the smart card. At midnight, when the set-top box uses the modem 
 to connect to the service provider, the information is then transmitted 
 from the smart card to the service provider. The service provider then 
 places the order. 
 
SEE EXAMPLE 
 UI DIAGRAM (LINK NEEDED)
 An example UI of the Interactive Shopping Services on a TV. 
 
Sun's 
 JavaTV&#153; Framework
 
The JavaTM 
 platform along with the Java TVTM API provides an ideal development and 
 deployment platform for this emerging class of interactive services. The 
 Java programming language provides developers with a high degree of control 
 and flexibility over the "look and feel" of their applications, 
 enabling them to deliver the most dynamic and compelling interactive television 
 experiences to their audience. In addition, interactive television applications 
 written in the Java programming language offer security, extensibility, 
 and portability across a diverse array of television receivers, saving 
 content developers time and money getting their interactive applications 
 to market. Download a copy of the JavaTV 
 API today. 
 
 
iTV 
 Reference Platform
 
The iTV reference 
 platform supports a subset of the DVB-MHP specification, which allows 
 developers to test iTV applications, xlets, in a device scenario. We encourage 
 you to download this reference platform if you are building iTV applications.
 
Download 
 the iTV Reference Platform in the Dev 
 Tools area on devicetop.com.
 
Overview 
 of a Carousel
 
 
- A carousel 
 is a way of organizing information that set-top box applications might 
 need from the digitalTV stream. This information is collected together 
 and transmitted alongside normal TV programming. 
 
- Data rotates 
 around the carousel, and is transmitted to the viewer at a specific 
 time. 
 
- Data is 
 usually included many times in one rotation (i.e xlets could be on the 
 carousel more than once in a rotation)
 
- Information 
 is one-way and read-only.
 
- An xlet 
 is to a TV set-top box as an applet is to a web browser.
 
 
 
(4) 
 End-User Profile
 
 
 
- Demographic 
 characteristics
 
 
The primary 
 target end users for the Interactive Shopping Services are all adult viewers 
 of television. This target audience varies in ages (must be 18+), with 
 different backgrounds and interests. 
 
 
Statistics 
 on the Home Shopping Network demographics:
 
 
- Viewership- 
 77% female, Age: 35+, Average Income: $61,000
 
- Reach 
 - +154 million households worldwide
 
- 2000 Sales 
 - $1.8 Billion
 
- Customer 
 Relations- A customer relations staff fulfills more than 1500 processes 
 and 75 million calls per year.
 
- Products 
 - HSN offers more than 21,000 unique products
 
- Mission 
 Statement - Our business at HSN is to make people feel good. We do this 
 by creating a shopping experience that is: fun, entertaining, informative, 
 convenient &#133; and worth it. We're live on TV and online, around 
 the world. We live our mission 24/7.
 
 
 
- Expectations 
 & Familiarity
 
 
 
The majority 
 of TV viewers are familiar with a remote controlled TV. There will be 
 a good percentage of these viewers who have had similar shopping experience 
 either with the Home Shopping Network or with online purchasing. 
 
 
- Objectives
 
 
 
- Gain 
 more entertainment value by viewing the pricing, branding, and product 
 information on many of the products seen in favorite television programs.
 
- The opportunity 
 to purchase favorable merchandise seen on actors, sports professionals, 
 other tv personalities, or on the set of specific television programs.
 
- An alternative 
 means of buying gifts. Viewers are often aware of the interests or favorite 
 television programs of friends and family. This application gives viewers 
 a new channel to purchase gifts. 
 
 
 
(5) 
 Customer Profile
 
The customer 
 of the Interactive Shopping Services is a service provider. Service providers 
 have two business models they can implement for this type of application. 
 They are likely to implement a combination of both options. 
 
Viewers will 
 be able to access the Interactive Shopping Services as part of their basic 
 iTV functions. The service provider will want to encourage the developer 
 to use this application as often as possible, and therefore offer this 
 service for free.
 
Build in 
 a business model that reflects one of the two options below, a combination 
 of both, or your own business model. 
 
Advertising 
 model - The service provider is able to generate revenue on the Interactive 
 Shopping Service by selling advertising placements. Throughout a television 
 program, all of the merchandise presented could be sponsored by one company. 
 For instance, all clothing merchandise that is presented could be from 
 Eddie Bauer. 
 
 
Revenue 
 Generating Model - The service provider is able to generate revenue 
 on the Interactive Shopping Service by charging the merchant on each purchase 
 made. For instance, on a purchase made, the service provider could charge 
 a 1%-3% transactional fee to the merchant, similar to what credit card 
 companies do to merchants. 
 
 
(6) 
 Market Profile
 
 
iTV 
 Projections
 
 
- The number 
 of set-top boxes purchased will jump from 6.9 million in 2000 to over 
 74 million in 2005. [Cahners In-Stat Group]
 
- American 
 digital cable subscription looks set to rise by an annual rate of 32%. 
 Digital cable subscription will overtake analogue cable within the next 
 6 years, with the number of digital cable subscribers increasing from 
 9M in 2000 to 35M by the end of 2004. By 2006 it will reach 50M subscribers, 
 which equals 67% of total cable subscriptions. VOD and other services 
 will attract analogue cable and DBS viewers [The Strategis Group]
 
- By the 
 end of 2001, 38 million homes worldwide will have access to interactive 
 digital television services, up from 20 million today. Western Europe 
 accounts for 62% of the audience this year, North America 18%, Asia-Pacific 
 10% and Latin America 1%. 74% of viewers use a satellite-based service, 
 21% cable and 5% terrestrial. [Strategy Analytics]
 
- In 2002, 
 the FCC requires that all commercial broadcast stations in the U.S. 
 must have digital TV facilities in operation. [Sun]
 
 
 
iTV 
 Advertising Projections
 
 
- Three-quarters 
 of all television commercials will be interactive within five years 
 [Forrester Research]
 
- Interactive 
 television advertising revenues are expected to reach $11 billion in 
 the U.S. by 2004 [Forrester Research]
 
- Interactive 
 television provides marketers with the means to personalize and collate 
 customer data and the opportunity to engage with customer for more than 
 the traditional 30-econd spot. Niche TV channels mean better targeting 
 of consumers, and ability to measure individual customer response. [BMPtvi]
 
- Forrester 
 predicts that by 2005 more than 16 million UK homes will use their electronic 
 program guide (EPG) for around 15 minutes per day, exposing them to 
 more than 10,000 impressions per year. As audiences fragment across 
 a flood of new digital channels, EPGs will become the last stand of 
 mass-media marketing. [Forrester Research]
 
 
 
T-Commerce 
 Projections
 
 
- T-commerce 
 or interactive TV (iTV) shopping will grow at a much faster rate in 
 the US than iTV advertising over the next 4 years. [Jupiter Media Metrix]
 
- Where 
 as iTV shopping will account for 44 percent of total US TV-based shopping 
 by 2005 iTV advertising will comprise only seven percent of US TV advertising 
 in the same year. [Jupiter Media Metrix]
 
- The $4.3 
 billion in t-commerce revenue will come from three main sources: 
 · ITV Shopping Programs ($3.4 billion)-Viewers use a remote control 
 instead of a phone to buy items showcased on infomercials or shopping 
 channels such as QVC or USA Networks' Home Shopping Network. 
 · ITV Malls ($0.7 billion)-Viewers tune in to a Web-like catalog 
 or store that carriers and their merchant partners provide within their 
 own areas. 
 · Integrated iTV Shopping ($0.3 billion)-Viewers interact with 
 offers embedded in commercials or programs, timed to take advantage 
 of impulse buying
 
 
Market 
 trends including industry challenges and customer adoption rates
 
 
- Set-top 
 boxes will not work until broadband penetration rates increase. On the 
 other hand, however, service providers are balking at offering interactive 
 services until they see a demonstration of consumer demand. [Cahners 
 In-Stat Group]
 
- TVs will 
 send you commercials targeted specifically to your household, with, 
 for example, a home with young children getting toy and detergent ads 
 while that of a retired couple getting commercials for denture care 
 and Depends. They will also allow parents to have far more control than 
 currently over the TV programming their kids can tune in to. [Jupiter 
 Media Metrix]
 
- One of 
 the biggest stumbling blocks for iTV are fears that the technology will 
 compromise viewers' privacy. Those fears were fanned when one of the 
 pioneers of interactive TV - digital set-top provider TiVo - found itself 
 embroiled this year in criticism over its collection of data about viewing 
 habits. [Jupiter Media Metrix]
 
- Analysts 
 say that short-term economic and funding concerns focus on applications 
 that have proven their viability with consumers, especially those demonstrating 
 revenue-generating potential. [Cahners In-Stat Group]
 
 
 
Online resources 
 used to collect market research: 
 Interactive 
 TV: Tailored to Your Wishes
 Set-Top 
 Box Market Is Ready to Explode
 iTV Marketer
 Sun's 
 Site
 Digital 
 Impact 
 Digital Now Inc.
 Shop 
 NBC
 Home 
 Shopping Network
 
 
(7) 
 Product Use Profile
 
 
- Device 
 Characteristics
 
 
The device 
 that the viewer's Interactive Shopping Services is running on is a set-top 
 box. The viewer will interact with the service using the remote control. 
 The developer of this application must keep this in mind; and therefore, 
 must create navigation and features to be simple.
 
 
- Inter-working 
 with other applications
 
 
The Interactive 
 Shopping Application will need to correspond with the content on the television 
 program. The sequence of merchandise shown, must be in context with the 
 television programming. For instance, only post towel information when 
 you are in the bathroom scene in the television program. 
 
The application 
 is in the form of an xlet on the carousel, which is transmitted alongside 
 normal TV programming. 
 
 
 
- Use 
 Scenarios 
 
 
 
(1) 
 You are watching "Friends" and you love the sweater Jennifer 
 Aniston is wearing. You notice that it's for sale and would like to at 
 least check out how much it costs. You click on the sweater icon and are 
 able to find out it costs $49 at The Gap. You find out that it is a pre-shrunk, 
 100% cotton sweater. You decide to purchase it. You click on the "buy 
 now" button are taken to a screen which gives the full price, which 
 includes the price of the sweater, taxes, and shipping fees. You click 
 "buy now" to confirm you agree with purchasing the sweater including 
 all of the costs involved. You then continue watching "Friends". 
 The next day you turn on your computer you receive a an email saying "Gap 
 Sweater #45201 Purchased! Total $56.50 ($49 + $2.50 taxes + $5 shipping 
 and handling), Delivered by Friday". The sweater arrives at your 
 doorstep four days later.
 
 
(2) 
 Your father loves to fish and hasn't bought any new gear in a while. Father's 
 Day is coming up and you want to buy him some fishing gear but don't have 
 a clue what to buy him. You decide that instead of heading out to a store, 
 you will watch the Fishing Channel on TV to see if you get any hints on 
 what to buy. You also have the Interactive Shopping Service as part of 
 your basic iTV package, so at least you know you have the option to purchase 
 an item for his gift while watching TV. You head to the Fishing Channel 
 and watching "Fishing with Dave & Mike". While watching 
 the show, really like one of the fishing rods that come up and it's the 
 right price. You also notice there is a special Father's Day promotion 
 on, where you will get an additional 10% off any purchase made today. 
 You decide to buy it. You click on "buy now" where you are exposed 
 to the total price, including the cost of the rod, less 10%, plus taxes, 
 and shipping fees. You click on the "Gift" icon, which allows 
 you to type in the address of your father. You click on "buy now" 
 again you are once again exposed to the total price since it changed due 
 to the your father's address (delivery fee). You must click on "buy 
 now" one last time, which is completed upon typing in your password. 
 A week later, your father phones to thank you for the great fishing rod 
 for Father's Day. 
 
 
(8) 
 Documentation Profile
 
 
The following 
 documents will need to be provided:
 
 
· 
 Getting Started Guide - Provide users a clear overview of what 
 the product is. The document should clearly indicate who is the intended 
 audience and what is included in the product. 
 
 
· 
 User's Guide - An overview of how the viewer can get started in 
 "shopping mode" where television programs provide this service. 
 There should be a detailed overview of the content provided (image, product 
 description, product ID#, pricing). There should be a detailed description 
 of the purchasing process, which should include pricing involved (product 
 price, delivery fee, and taxes). There should also be an overview on security 
 measures put in place to ensure people under the age of 18 do not use 
 the service. 
 
(9) 
 Additional Comments
 
 
 
- This application 
 idea actually values reruns. New items can be available in reruns, including 
 collector items. 
 
- Another 
 variation of this application is to target it specific to commercials. 
 While viewers watch traditional 20-second commercial spots, there could 
 be an option to click on "buy now" and purchase the advertised 
 product.
 
- Not all 
 products in each television program are for sale. This is determined 
 by the service providers and content providers before the show goes 
 on air. 
 
- It is 
 important to note that you should not put too much content on the screen 
 because you do not want viewers to be too distracted while watching 
 their favorite television programs. An image, brief description, pricing 
 information, branding information, and a "Buy Now" button 
 should be all that is needed
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CREATE &#8226; CODE &#8226; UPLOAD
 
HOME l USER 
 l FORUMS l NEWSWIRE 
 l CONTEST l TOOLS 
 l APPLICATIONS
 
ABOUT DEVICETOP.COM PRIVACY 
 STATEMENT CONTACT US CONTEST RULES PARTNERS
NEED A JAVA BROWSER?
 
© 2000 Espial Group Inc. Espial and devicetop.com 
 are trademarks of Espial Group 
Inc. All other trademarks belong to their 
 respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
