
JADCentral : CodeCentral : Servlets/JSP
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 Applets 
 
 
 Utilities 
 
 
 Multimedia 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 Database 
 
 
 Servlets/JSP 
 
 
 XML 
 
 
 Wireless Java 
 
 
 JUG Utilities 
 
 
 JavaBeans 
 
 
 Reference and Tutorials 
 
 
 Games and Entertainment 
 
 
 Techshowcase Downloads 
 
 
 Business Code 
 
 
 Unsorted Code 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	 Servlets/JSP 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 Downloads 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-16-2002 
	 	
	 Bugzero Bug Tracking System
	 A web-based, easy-to-install bug and defect tracking system.
It is platform and database system inpendent. Try online demo at http://www.websina.com/bugzero/
	 
	 
	 0 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-23-2002 
	 	
	 Ozibug
	 Ozibug is a platform-independent, web-based bug tracking system. It is written entirely in Java, and utilizes servlet technology. This allows Ozibug to be installed and run on any platform for which a Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and servlet container are available. It is ready to work straight out of the box on any platform, providing features such as reports, file attachments, email notifications, audit trails, an administration interface and system statistics. For those who require more flexibility, it also offers fine grained access control, multiple module support, a customizable appearance, customizable reference data and full internationalization.
Two editions of Ozibug are available, the fully featured Enterprise Edition with optional support is available for purchase online through a secure payment server, while the basic Community Edition is available at no cost.
For more information and access to the demonstration systems visit the Ozibug Home Page.
	 
	 
	 24 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-22-2002 
	 	
	 Connect Daily - Web Calendar Software
	 Connect Daily is a Java Servlet based web calendaring application. It provides outstanding recurring event handling and superior resource management capabilities.
	 
	 
	 31 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-12-2002 
	 	
	 EConnect@Whiz - IBM Enterprise Connectivity Certif
	 EConnect@Whiz comprises of 3 Mock Tests (174 Questions) on the latest pattern of IBM's Enterprise Connectivity (with J2EE) Certification Exam. The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 34 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-28-2002 
	 	
	 calender
	 calender
	 
	 
	 189 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-24-2002 
	 	
	 Pagelets, generates dynamic text-based output.
	 The Pagelets technology allows developers to embed Java scripting elements inside of text documents in order to generate dynamic text-based output. The idea and functionality behind Pagelets is very similar to Java Server Pages with one huge difference - Pagelets are not tied to the HTTP protocol. That difference opens up plethora of new possibilities and uses for the technology. For example, Pagelets can be used to dynamically render the content of email messages, or as a simple source code generator, or to render dynamic content in any other environment - whether that environment is tied to the HTTP protocol or not. Basically, Pagelets are - JSP without HTTP.
	 
	 
	 66 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-25-2002 
	 	
	 Globalleafs -Java Complete Solutions
	 If you are looking to develop applications starting from core java to enterprise java then check this website http://www.globalleafs.com. You will find it useful in your daily programming.
	 
	 
	 61 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-15-2002 
	 	
	 Tag Interface Component Library (TICL)
	 TICL is an advanced library of server-side user interface components accessible through JSP(TM) tags. Like a conventional desktop toolkit, the components maintain state and manage interaction logic with the end-user with little or no assistance from the programmer. Core features include: 
- A powerful, flexible and extensible server-side event model. 
- Tabbed pane, table view, tree view, panel, menu components and more... 
- A high-level styles framework for complete customization of the look&feel of components. 
- Full encapsulation of HTML forms, augmented with things such as server-side command handlers, labels and DHTML tooltips. 
- A very powerful and incredibly easy to use declarative form validation mechanism (both client and server-side). 
- A user-agent framework, API and tags for handling browser differences, including the detection of dynamic browser properties (such as available plugins, screen size etc.). 
- A data objects and type mapping fully customizable framework for associating web forms with external data. 
- Integrates easily with other tools, including the popular Struts and Expresso development frameworks. 
TICL is highly scable and integrates seemlessly into existing JSP technology applications. It will work with any web server supporting the JSP 1.1 and Java(TM) technology servlets 2.2 standards such as Tomcat or Resin.
	 
	 
	 104 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-11-2002 
	 	
	 jdbc jsp demo
	 Learn to read data from your database using the JDBC API and display these data using JSP. An online form to execute SQL statements to update your database is also included.
	 
	 
	 641 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-04-2002 
	 	
	 dotJ Custom Tag Library
	 The dotJ Custom Tag Library is a J2EE based server-side tag library which brings Rapid Application Development to your J2EE application. With dotJ, you can quickly build browser-based applications without embedding lots of JavaTM code in your JavaServer Pages. 
Tags include email, upload, grid, HTML forms, ad rotator, etc.
	 
	 
	 77 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-19-2002 
	 	
	 JDBC JSP Demo
	 Learn to read data from your database using the JDBC API and display these data using JSP. An online form to execute SQL statements to update your database is also included.
	 
	 
	 3420 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-04-2002 
	 	
	 WebLogic@Whiz- BEA WebLogic Certification ( WLS 6.
	 WebLogic@Whiz comprises of 3 Mock Tests (180 Questions) on the latest pattern of WebLogic 
(WLS 6.0) Certification Exam. The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 87 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 2-24-2002 
	 	
	 Nexaweb
	 Nexaweb's "Smart Client" allows JSP developers to extend the functionality of new or existing applications to include Windows-like application behavior and performance. By merely replacing the UI portions of code with XUL (XML-based User Interface Language), a desktop applicaiton experience can be achieved over any even thin network connections and speeds. 
Nexaweb HelloWorld example included.
	 
	 
	 98 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 2-18-2002 
	 	
	 Sav ZServer
	 Sav ZServer is a Web-based ORDBMS server with Zigzag language for object, relational, and XML data manipulation. Server provides navigation in Z database via Web browser and database object may be a Web resource (HTML document, image, video clip, program). To create remote database, developer can design only client HTML-form interface, correspondent database will be produced automatically!!! Server is useful as fit program for registration and accounting of Web users.
	 
	 
	 31 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-16-2002 
	 	
	 Script Pilot: JavaScript Automation Tool
	 promoters, hard-core surfers, and PC power users. This is not the meek,
restricted JavaScript you see animating Web pages. Use Script Pilot to
automate uploading and downloading of files, images or even whole sites.
Automate your site testing, download HTML and extract links for analysis
with one simple script line. Customize your hit log analysis and site
backups. Customize search engine submissions and ranking tasks. Create
your own smart search robots, automatically submit data to Web forms,
zip, encrypt and upload data, fire up and interconnect applications and
ActiveX controls on your system, and more.
	 
	 
	 247 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-04-2002 
	 	
	 JSOS ver. 2.67
	 Servlets Office Suite - the largest
(50+) suite of Java servlets and filters
	 
	 
	 157 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-04-2002 
	 	
	 WebSphere@Whiz- IBM WebSphere Certification ( Test
	 WebSphere@Whiz comprises of 3 Mock Tests (159 Questions) on the latest pattern of WebSphere (Test 488) Certification Exam. The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 65 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-03-2002 
	 	
	 Java Napster
	 Java Napster (JNapster) is a Java implementation of the Napster client, which offers access to a worldwide network of MP3 files. JNapster provides a GUI similar to that of the Napster Windows client. As it is written in Java, it will run on any platform with a JRE or JDK. JNapster is distributed under the GNU GPL 
Version 0.76 adds some simple download management, automatic recognition of "Remotely Queued" downloads, the capability to select many songs and download or abort all of them, and bug fixes.
	 
	 
	 121 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-27-2001 
	 	
	 CT Cookie Spy: View,delete spying cookies
	 computer and where they came from? This little utility will not only
show you but also lets you delete the ones you don't want. It will
present you with a list of all the cookies on your computer, date and
time they were created and give you a link directly to the web site
that put them there. Update shows the expiration date and life of the
cookies. You may be surprised!
	 
	 
	 194 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-02-2001 
	 	
	 SCWCD@Whiz - SCWCD (Sun Certified Web Component De
	 SCWCD@Whiz is a SCWCD Test Simulation Engine for Web component developer certification. The current version consists of 4 Mock Tests (236 Questions) on the pattern of SCWCD certification and an Interactive Quiz (85 Questions). The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, Interactive quiz, scorer of the month and many more.
	 
	 
	 105 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-13-2001 
	 	
	 Pajes Servlet Presentation Framework
	 Servlet presentation framework that uses pure HTML templates and MVC to allow skinning of applications and easy creation of sophisticated browser-based user interfaces for J2EE and other servlet-based applications.
Maybe the most important thing is the ability for the user interface to "slip its skin", look completely different, simply by adding varying HTML templates.
There are a slew of integrated functions, but you should go to the pajes website if you want to know more.
	 
	 
	 159 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-12-2001 
	 	
	 DJ Java Decompiler
	 DJ Java Decompiler is a Windows 95/98/NT/ME/2000 graphical decompiler and disassembler for Java that reconstructs original source code from compiled binary CLASS files. DJ Java Decompiler can decompile complex Java applets and binaries, producing accurate source code. This program is also a full-featured Java editor. 
To use DJ Java Decompiler, select Open and load your desired CLASS file. You will see the source code instantly. Because this program is a standalone Windows application, it doesn't require you to have Java installed. 
This latest release is able to compile, run, and create JAR archives and can run applets outside of the context of a Web browser when JDK is installed. Version 2.8.8.54 allows you to decompile more than one Java compiled class file at one time. Version 2.9.9.61 features new decompiler options added, enables users to change the default font name and size, faster syntax colorizing.
	 
	 
	 2411 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 10-01-2001 
	 	
	 CoffeeShop: Development Platform for JAVA
	 servlets or JavaBeans components. Entirely written using the latest Java
technology, it provides you with anything you need to develop world-class
Java software. CoffeeShop's target is to support your main development
process - developing, debugging, executing.
CoffeeShop Highlights:
- entirely written using the Java language
- able to run cross-platform in Windows, Unix, OS/2
- intelligent source code editor, which is able to colorize and
remember nearly 2800 Java related keywords.
- WYSIWYG Graphical User interface builder, with support for
LayoutManagers and JFC (Swing components)
- Nearly 20 pre-defined visual components, integration is IFC,
JavaBeans, AFC or your own components and classes for is easy
- graphical debugger interface
- Preprocessor (#define, #ifdef, #endif, #undef etc.)
- Integrated DocFather Java documentations for JDK and JFC
- Project management with support for multiple projects at the same
time.
- Fast compiler environment, which compiles only modified classes.
- Intuitive, fine-designed user interface
	 
	 
	 310 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-24-2001 
	 	
	 OzJFontChooser
	 JFontChooser is a java swing widget that allows your users to select a specific font from their system. It works just like Color Chooser from Java 2 swing. This is LGPL'ed and ready to go... Jar includes source, README, and javadoc
	 
	 
	 75 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-27-2001 
	 	
	 Eval tag
	 Ever need an eval tag to put on your site? found this one and think all will like it.
	 
	 
	 122 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-27-2001 
	 	
	 Jive
	 Someone told me that she liked my Jive forum tool, so i thought i 'd post this copy for everyone.
	 
	 
	 176 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-22-2001 
	 	
	 Rotating Menu
	 This is cool cube code: it turns your menu bar links into a rotating cube!
	 
	 
	 324 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-21-2001 
	 	
	 CSRandomQuote
	 CSRandomQuote is a free, open source Java servlet that displays random quotes using Server Side Includes (SSI). This means that you can embed commands in your html documents that will print a random line from a text file.
	 
	 
	 75 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-21-2001 
	 	
	 CounterCodes
	 These are three excellent counter codes that can be used in a variety of circumstances.
	 
	 
	 206 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-02-2001 
	 	
	 Guest Booklet
	 A servlet that allows users to sign and view multiple electronic guestbooks.
	 
	 
	 239 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-07-2001 
	 	
	 Vote Servlet 1.12
	 This is a Java servlet that allows you to quickly build and deploy surveys and polls on your web site. You can use your own HTML stuff for survey desing and deploy servlet only as a script for saving/review results. Or you can generate survey through this servlet without any knowledge about HTML.
	 
	 
	 380 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-07-2001 
	 	
	 WAPping Servlet 1.1
	 This is a Java servlet that allows you monitor your network from your mobile phone with WAP support. This simple tool just executes ping command on your host and displays results on your phone.
	 
	 
	 147 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-07-2001 
	 	
	 WebMail Servlet 1.3
	 This is a Java servlet that allows you to support web-based private mail service including mail-lists. So all mail (private, and mail lists) will be saved and distributed within your server. This servlet offers user interface to read/send mail, create and maintain mail lists etc. In other words it is a special forum (message board) where the interface is organized like e-mail package. So this servlet is yet another way to create your own community.
	 
	 
	 728 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-07-2001 
	 	
	 Calendar Servlet 1.9
	 This is a Java servlet that implements a calendar. You can use it as a standard calendar system, for booking some resources etc. Calendar supports WAP/WML so you can use it even from your mobile phone. 
Calendar's users may by notified by e-mail about schedule changes. 
Calendar supports file based persistence - your data will be saved in the flat file (files) or database based persistence. See below how to define this option.
	 
	 
	 490 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-16-2001 
	 	
	 Chat Servlet 1.43
	 This is a Java servlet for implementing chat rooms. It is a pure HTML implementation, so this chat is free from any firewall's restrictions. Also this chat supports WAP/WML, so mobile users can join your chat's community.
	 
	 
	 1195 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
