
Java Optimization Resources
Java Optimization Resources
[ index ]
[ benchmarks
 | compilers
 | maintainability
 | rules
 | size
 | speed
 | tools ]
I started this page because there no other web resources on
how to optimize Java. Thankfully, that has now changed.
Optimization
 
- Doug Bell has an excellent article on Java 
 optimization in JavaWorld (see also benchmarks, below).
 
- Paul Santa Maria shows how 
 to benchmark 
 and optimize a Mandelbrot Set program.
 
- Peter Wayner's article on Core Programming in the September 1996 issue
 of Byte describes the various bytecodes used for Java function calls and
 how to speed them up (two words: use final!).
 
- Paul Tyma has
 written:
 
	
- An article on optimizing Java in the April 1996 issue of
	 Dr Dobbs Journal.
	
	
- An online article on Why not to 
	 use Thread.sleep()
	
- Slides and example code from a talk on Writing
	 Fast Java Code, including a case study.
 
Benchmarking
There are now enough Java benchmarks out there that I've alphabetised the list
and commented out some that aren't being updated anymore.
 
- Doug Bell's Benchmark
 applet is part of an excellent article on how to optimize Java.
 
- Bill
 and Paul's Excellent UCSD Benchmarks, with a great explanation of the
 perils of benchmarking Java and pointers to more benchmarks.
 
- BenchBeans
 is a competitor for CaffeineMark (see below), in that it attempts to
 measure all aspects of Java performance, including graphics.
 
- CaffeineMark
 and the Java 
 Performance Report are probably the most quoted Java benchmark and
 results. 
 
- Fhourstones 2.0
 plays a perfect game of Connect 4 and times itself. A good example of a
 non-trivial memory- and compute-intensive benchmark.
 
- Java BYTEMark from
 BYTE magazine--sadly no results yet.
 
- Java
 Speed trials from PC Magazine--the opposite problem, results
 but no source.
 
- Jstones by Jens
 Steckhan concentrates on testing the performance of AWT dialog elements,
 and includes comparative results for different systems.
 
- Java
 vs C++ results for dense matrix calculations, from Sky Coyote.
 
- Linpack
 by Jack Dongarra and Reed Wade (with additional
 optimizations from this site).
<!- 
- OSF Java test
 suite includes both validation and benchmarking tests.
 Comprehensive but also tending towards incomprehensible. -->
 
- Sieve of Eratosthenes and the
 Plasma benchmark from Wayne Rasband.
The FemtoJava project at UMD has links
to other benchmarks. 
Books
A few of the currently available 
Java 
books have sections on optimization:
 
- Teach
 Yourself Internet Game Programming with Java in 21 Days by Michael
 Morrison includes tables from this site (with my approval), and expands
 on some of the techniques I describe for speed
 and helping the compiler.
 
- KickAss Java Programming by
 Tonny Espeset gives no credit, but uses a couple of my examples (of
 course, it might be pure coincidence that he also chose
 arrayCopy, abs, and inline code using the variable
 x but the odds are against it...).
 
- Advanced Java: Idioms,
 Styles, Programming Tips and Pitfalls has good general advice and
 some specific performance analyses for hash tables, strings and
 vectors.
 
- Cutting-Edge Java Game Programming by Neil Bartlett, Steve Simkin and
 Chris Stranc includes techniques from and references to this site.
Java resources
 
- There are several excellent collections of Java links--here are just a
 few:
 
	
- JavaLinks from TeamJava.
	
- Java Notes from Jim
	 George.
	
- Java Programming
	 Resources from Marty Hall.
	
- Java
	 Resources from the Infospheres project at Caltech.
	
 
 
- "How Do I..." 
 from the Java Developer.
 
 http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jch/java/resources.html 
 Java Optimization Resources 
 
 
 Last modified: Wed 18 Mar 1998 
 Copyright &#169 1996, 1997 Jonathan Hardwick 
 
