
Inside AWT
 
Inside AWT
 
This is a series of three articles:
 
- Making your own UI Components
 (1400 words)
 
- Migrating the Components to
 AWT 1.1 (1800 words)
 
- Serializing UI Components
 (1500 words)
 
- Download the articles and the source
 code
The author offers you an inside look of AWT, which helps you
to make right design decisions, if you are creating UI
Components. He also signals some of the AWT limitations and a bug of JDK 1.1.x, which isn't fixed in
JDK 1.2 beta 4 either.
The first article answers to
two questions: Why is it necessary to make your own components?
and How to do that? It presents three classes of components,
which use AWT 1.0. This is a necessary introduction for the next
two articles. The article is followed by an applet, which has 300
lines.
The second article shows you
how the components from the previous article can be converted to
AWT 1.1 and what the advantages are. The author analyzes a few of
the sources of AWT classes to provide details about the
delegation event model and he demonstrates how this can improve
both the performance and the architecture of the applications.
Nevertheless, there are a few inconsistencies in AWT 1.1. The new
applet has 400 lines.
The third article gives you
one more reason to use AWT 1.1. The new components are JavaBeans,
so they are serializable. The applet is transformed into an
application, whose user interface is persistent. At each run the
window of the application will be deserialized and shown on
screen in the same position with the same dimension, and the
components will have same state as they have at the last close of
the application. The source code has 250 lines. 
The conclusion from the final of the third article rises three
questions to the programmers from JavaSoft, whose design
decisions limit the possibilities of the independent developers,
who create UI components.
The author of this page can be reached at andcio@hotmail.com. 
Back to Java Developer's Page (Visit
this page every month) 
URL:
http://www.geocities.com/SiliconValley/Horizon/6481/InsideAWT.html
Last updated: December 30, 1998
This page hosted by Get your
own Free Homepage 
