
Java and JavaScript Programming, by Richard G Baldwin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This site contains three Java tutorials that I developed for teaching a series of Java programming courses 
 onsite at various companies near my home in central Texas.
 
Click Here for Table of Contents 
 
 I also use these tutorials for teaching Java programming courses 
 at Austin Community College (ACC), where I am a professor in the CIS/CSC department. You may be interested 
 in the descriptions of the courses.
 If you would like to use these Java materials to teach a Java programming class, please contact me.
 
(The ACC site will also link you to some tutorial material
 that I wrote for teaching C++ a few years ago. A complete tutorial for learning to program in C++ is provided
 there.) 
 Beginning in the Fall of 1999, I also began using these tutorials for teaching non-credit Java programming 
 courses in the Continuing Education side of the house at ACC. You may be interested in the
 descriptions 
 of those courses as well.
 
 
Also beginning in the Fall of 1999, I began using these tutorials to teach a series of virtual 
 Java programming courses on the Web using conferencing software. There are some significant cost
 advantages to this type of training. If your company would be interested 
 in having me conduct virtual onsite training in Java programming, please contact me for more information.
 
 
And last but not least, this site also contains a few JavaScript tutorials that
 I put together one day just for fun.
 
 
 
 
 
 All four tutorials are available on this site for free
 online viewing. In addition, you have permission from the
 author to print one copy for your own use. (You may not
 redistribute the tutorial contents without written
 permission from Richard Baldwin.) If you would like to
 view the online version of the tutorials, follow the link below: 
 
 
Click Here for Table of Contents 
 
I hope you find the tutorials useful. Please come
 back often to see what's new. 
 
 
 
 For your convenience, a zip file containing
 all of the Java tutorials, an alphabetical index, and some other material 
 is available for downloading. The 
 tutorials contained in the downloadable zip file are
 free of advertisements making them more economical to print and 
 easier to view on a small screen, such as a laptop.
 
While all three Java tutorials are available for
 free online viewing, the downloadable files simplify
 printing and enable local viewing of the tutorial pages
 (from a local hard drive as opposed to over an internet
 connection). For example, you might find local viewing from your laptop to be
 particularly useful if you travel frequently. 
 
In addition, the sales proceeds help to
 offset the ongoing cost of hosting and maintaining this
 site and help ensure that this resource will continue to
 be available. 
 
If you would like to download the tutorials 
 for local viewing or printing, please go to the download
 page. And thank you for your support. 
 
 
 [ Home
 ] [ Tutorials ] [ Author ] [ Training
 ] [ Reviews ] [ Links
 ] [ Legal ] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
