
Welcome to JResources.com
 
 
 
 
 
JResources.com Channels
 
 
 Welcome to JResources.comTM
 
 
 
 
Home
 
Introduction
Search
Discussion Forums
Disclaimer
License
Feedback
 
Applets
 
Ad banner
Ticker
Hyperlinked ticker
Vertical scroller
Hyperlinked banner
Button menu
Web site shortcuts
Animator
Digital clock
Growing text
Rainbow text
RGB calculator
 
Servlets
 
JDBC Connector Servlet
XMLDataGateway Servlet
 
Applications
 
Web server query tool
Simple text editor
 
MS Java Resources
 
GUID generator
Java NSLookup
Code-behind HTML (Pt 1)
Code-behind HTML (Pt 2)
 
Other Resources
 
JavaSoft
Gamelan
JARS
MS Java
Hoskinson.net
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
 
	
 
	
	
	Introduction 
	News 
	
	
	
 
Welcome to JResources.com. This site contains a variety of different Java applets and applications. 
You may use these applets and applications free of 
charge for non-commercial use, subject to this license agreement. Also, make sure 
you read the disclaimer before using any of this 
software. If you are interested in licensing these applets for commercial use, you can do so via 
Amazon.com. 
This site contains three basic categories of 
products: 
Applets
These applets are written completely in Java. They use 
classes from the core API only (as defined by the Sun JDK 1.02, for maximum 
browser reach), and do not use any third party add-ons or class libraries. 
Consequently, these applets should run on any platform to which a 
reasonable implementation of the Java virtual machine has been ported. Please 
note that performance will vary based on the quality of the underlying Java 
virtual machine.
Servlets
These servlets are written completely in Java, to the JDK 1.1 and servlet API 2.1 spec. 
They have been developed and tested with Tomcat 3.1 (beta), 
but should run in any compliant servlet container.
Standalone Applications
These stand-alone applications are written completely in Java, 
to the JDK 1.1 spec. They should run in any JDK 1.1 - compliant VM. 
Performance will, of course, vary based on the quality of the underlying Java 
virtual machine.
Applets that use Microsoft-specific 
technologies
Some of 
the applets/applications are written using Microsoft-specific technologies, such as J/Direct and Authenticode. Hence, 
they will only run in Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0x or higher. I 
have noted this, where appropriate, in the documentation.
Incidentally, if you are interested in Visual J++ 6.0 server-side Code-behind HTML, you should read this article on the subject, entitled Developing
 data-driven Web sites with Code-behind HTML (Part 1 and 
Part 2), published by ZD Journals.
Legal Info
This web site and all of its content is copyright© 1996-99, Andy Hoskinson, all rights reserved. Use of the software 
on this web site is subject to this license agreement. Please read and agree to all terms before using any of the software on this Web site.
Contact Info
Please report any 
problems to the JResources.com team. 	
	
 
	
JResources.com applet collection source code -- Sunday, April 21, 2002
The JResources.com applet collection source code bundle is now available via Amazon.com. If you are:
- A developer looking to make custom modifications to one or more of the JResources.com applets for use in your web applications
- A commercial web site operator in need of a commercial license for the JResources.com applet collection
- A student who wants to find out how we implemented the various special effects
You can now purchase the JResources.com applet collection Java source code bundle via Amazon.com for the low price of $19.95. Click here for more details.
Professional XML Databases -- Wednesday, December 20, 2000
If you are looking for a good book on developing XML-enabled database applications, you should check out Professional XML Databases.
This is an outstanding book. Of course, I'm biased, because I'm one of the authors. I wrote chapter 16, JDBC. In this chapter, I walk through how to develop an XML Gateway Architecture for JDBC. I also discuss how to use XML to create distributed JDBC applications using the javax.sql.Rowset interface and the WebRowSet class. Check it out, and let me know what you think.
Professional Java Server Programming, J2EE Edition -- Thursday, August 17, 2000
If you are looking for a good book on developing J2EE applications, you should check out Professional Java Server Programming, J2EE Edition.
This is an outstanding book. Of course, I'm biased, because I'm one of the authors. I wrote chapter 16, An XML-Based JDBC Connector Servlet Framework. Check it out, and let me know what you think.
Web Server Query Tool recognized by JARS -- Wednesday, June 07, 2000
Hoskinson's Web Server Query Tool recently received a top 25% rating from JARS.com. JARS.com, an Earthweb site, is the number one Java review service. Click here for more details. 
 
	
 
 
Copyright © 1996-99, JResources.com. All rights
 reserved.
Download the Java source code for the JResources.com applet collection
 
 
 
 
