
Servlet and JSP Training Courses
 
 JSP and Servlets: Short Training Courses
 
- Contact the instructor.
 To arrange on-site JSP & servlet training at your facility. 
 Yes, Marty is available for non-US courses. He's done them
 in Australia, Canada, Japan, and the Philippines.
 
- JSP & Servlet Course Topics.
 Details on the topics covered in the intermediate-level on-site course.
 New: course now includes review session for
 the Sun Certified Web Component Developer (SCWCD) exam.
 
- Public Course:
 Programming with Servlet & JSP Technology. 
 Intermediate-level public (open enrollment) training course.
 For those who know basic Java but not servlets & JSP. Sept 17-20, 
 Northern VA (near Washington DC). Cookies, session tracking, JSP scripting
 elements, JavaBeans in JSP, MVC, custom tags, JDBC, and more. New:
 course now includes review session for the Sun Certified Web Component Developer
 (SCWCD) exam.
 
- Public Course: 
 Advanced Servlet & JSP Programming. Advanced public 
 (open enrollment) training course. For those with
 moderate to significant servlet & JSP experience. Sept 24-27,
 Northern VA (near Washington DC). Advanced custom tags, declarative and programmatic
 Web security, more on MVC, filters, listeners, and more. New: course now
 includes coverage of Apache Struts.
 
- About the Instructor.
 Author of the world's best-selling servlet and
 JSP book; award-winning instructor; speaker at JavaOne 2000/2001/2002,
 Comdex, International Conference for Java Development, etc. Has given
 JSP and servlet training courses all over the US as well as in Canada,
 Australia, Japan, and the Philippines.
 
- Reviews from Courses.
 Feedback from previous students. 
 
- Schedule and Availability.
 Times when Marty is and is not available for on-site courses.
 
- Course Materials.
 Sample lecture notes and exercises.
 
- Home Page for Core
 Servlets and JavaServer Pages. Basis for the intermediate-level 
 training courses.
 
- Home Page for More
 Servlets and JavaServer Pages. Basis for the advanced servlet
 & JSP training courses.
 
- 
 General Java Programming Courses. Introduction to Programming with
 the Java 2 Platform. Based on Marty's Sun Press book Core Web Programming.
Wonderful. In 20 years, this is the best organized, most pragmatic, 
and enjoyable course I've taken. 
The best instructor-led course I have attended, by far. 
Compared to the other short courses I have taken, this one completely 
redefined my scale from 1-10. 
Best short course ever! 
More reviews from students
 
 Marty's 1st servlet/JSP book
 from Sun Microsystems Press
 
 
 Marty's 2nd servlet/JSP book
from Sun Microsystems Press
Looking for short hands-on training courses on servlets and JavaServer Pages (JSP)
taught at your company by Marty Hall? If you have a group of 
at least eight interested developers (15 for courses outside the US or Canada),
contact Marty to arrange a course
at your location. Distinctive features of Marty's training:
 
- Courses are taught by an experienced developer, award-winning
 instructor, conference speaker on servlets and JSP (JavaOne 2000,
	 JavaOne 2001, JavaOne 2002, International Conference for Java Development,
	 Evolve 2000, SD West, Comdex), and author of 
 Core Web Programming. 
 Core Servlets and
 JavaServer Pages (JSP), and
 More Servlets and
 JavaServer Pages (JSP) from Sun Microsystems
 Press. Core Servlets and JavaServer Pages is 
 the most popular servlet and JSP book internationally,
	 with translations in Bulgarian, Chinese, Czech, French, 
 German, Hebrew, Japanese, Korean, Polish, Russian and Spanish.
 It was ranked by both amazon.com and fatbrain.com as one of
 the ten best computer programming books of 2001, and was one of
 the top ten best-selling computer-related books at Borders
 stores and amazon.com in 2001.
 
- Training covers servlets 2.3 and JSP 1.2 in detail.
 
- Courses include review/preparation session for the 
 Sun Certified Web Component Developer (SCWCD) exam.
 
- Courses are well-tested, having been taught by Marty
 in the US, Canada, Australia, the Philippines, and Japan
 
- Courses provide plenty of hands-on servlet and JSP exercises
 
- Training can be customized to suit the background and interests
 of your people. You can choose any mix of the topics from either the
 intermediate-level or
 advanced courses. Need
 some coverage of basic Java, too? No problem: Marty is the author
 of Core Web Programming from Sun Press and can add in several
 topics from his 
 general Java programming course. 
 
- Courses include a complete set of course notes and a copy
 of Core Servlets and JSP (for the intermediate-level course)
 or More Servlets and JSP (for the advanced course).
Contact the course instructor
at hall@coreservlets.com
for more details and to arrange on-site training. Please check
Marty's schedule and availability
first. 
Co-sponsored by
Sun Microsystems Press
Open-enrollment courses. 
Despite the convenience of on-site training courses,
a number of people have said that they simply don't have enough
people to have Marty come in for an on-site servlet and JSP training course. 
So, he periodically offers public courses as well. The next two will be
a 4-day short course on basic servlet and JSP
development
April 16-19, 2002 in Northern Virginia (near Washington DC) and
a 4-day short course on advanced servlet and JSP
development
April 23-26, 2002 at the same location.
Class size is limited: four of Marty's previous public servlet and
JSP short courses (Sydney, Australia and Rockville, Maryland) were full. 
Wonderful. In 20 years, this is the best organized, most pragmatic, 
and enjoyable course I've taken. 
From 2001 Servlet and JSP Short Course in Maryland 
Excellent course. The best instructor-led course I have attended,
by far. The course was exactly what I was hoping for.
From 2002 Servlet and JSP Short Course in Texas
 
Best short course ever! 
From 2001 Servlet and JSP Short Course in Maryland 
Compared to the other short courses I have taken this one completely 
redefined my scale from 1-10. 
From 2001 Servlet and JSP Short Course in Maryland 
I'm not easily pleased by industry courses. Luckily, not all
presenters are as good as Marty, otherwise University lecturers
like myself would be out of work. From 2000 Servlet and JSP
short course in Sydney Australia.
Marty is a fantastic teacher and communicator. I thoroughly
enjoyed the course and it was timely for my current work.
From 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Sydney Australia.
It was the best way to survey Java servlets and JSP. I enjoyed
every minute of Marty's interesting and knowledge-filled
presentations. 
From 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
Totally fantastic, right level, right material.
From 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
It was an awesome course delivered by an extraordinary man. Yes, I 
truly admire your in-depth knowledge, approach and ideas.
From 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
This was the most successful short course that I have taken 
in the past five years. ... A Great Feat. Keep it up!
From 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
Being a Microsoft Certified Instructor for seven years I 
definitely give a top point to Marty. Discussions are well controlled,
they were interesting yet weren't boring. Marty's knowledge is
incredible.
From 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
Definitely the best computer class I ever took... I do
not even know how you could have done a better job. From
1999 Java short course for GM R&D Center in Detroit.
Masterful, quick-paced presentation. Witty, but never trite. Discussed
but never belabored. A Java ed-venture. A gaggle of Goslings could not
have done better! Attendee at 1999 Java short course at
the U.S. Coast Guard Operations System Center in West Virginia,
waxing poetic on the course evaluation.
Superb! ... Great amount of information, clearly communicated and very
good interaction with the audience. From 1999 Java short course at
the U.S. Coast Guard Operations System Center in West Virginia.
More extensive set of reviews from courses.
Reader reviews of Marty's bestselling servlet and JSP text 
from Sun Microsystems Press.
Short Course Topics
Following is the standard curriculum for the four-day training course that
is based on Core Servlets and
JavaServer Pages. It assumes that students are familiar with basic Java programming
and HTML, but do not necessarily know anything HTTP, servlets, JSP, or CGI.
Every day is broken into three or four topics, each of which consists of lecture
followed by lab time to try hands-on exercises.
New: Advanced servlet and JSP short course
based on More Servlets and JavaServer Pages. This four-day course
will cover the topics listed in the 
book's
table of contents. It assumes students are familiar with basic servlet and 
JSP development, up to at least the level of the standard four-day training
course listed below.
Servlets 2.2
- Day 1 Session 1: Getting Started with Servlets
 
- Advantages of servlets over CGI and competing technologies
 
- The process of compiling, installing, and invoking servlets
 (Includes specific details for Apache Tomcat 4 and New Atlanta
 ServletExec)
 
- Generating HTML
 
- The servlet life cycle
 
- Using initialization parameters
 
- Using page modification dates to support browser caching
 
- Servlet debugging strategies
- Day 1 Session 2: Query data
 
- Aside: HTML forms
 
- Reading form data
 
- Handling GET and POST from a single servlet
 
- Handling missing and malformed query data
- Day 1 Session 3: Using HTTP 1.1 request headers
 
- Why, how, available headers, examples
 
- Reducing download time by sending compressed pages
 
- Aside: Servlet equivalent of the standard CGI variables
- Day 2 Session 1: Generating The HTTP Response
 
- HTTP 1.1 status codes and what you use them for
 
- A search engine front end
 
- HTTP 1.1 response headers and what you use them for
 
- Common MIME Types
 
- Accessing ongoing server-side computation with incremental browser updates
- Day 2 Session 2: Handling cookies
 
- Uses of cookies
 
- Problems with cookies
 
- Sending cookies to browser
 
- Reading cookies from browser
 
- Cookie utilities
- Day 2 Session 3: Session Tracking
 
- The purpose of session tracking
 
- The session tracking API
 
- Per-servlet access counts
 
- Making a reusable shopping cart class
JavaServer Pages 1.1
- Day 2 Session 4: Introduction to JSP
 
- Advantages of JSP over competing technologies
 
- Setting up your environment
 
- Invoking JSP pages
 
- Common misunderstandings about JSP
 
- JSP in the real world
- Day 3 Session 1: JSP Scripting Elements
 
- JSP Expressions
 
- JSP Scriptlets
 
- JSP Declarations
 
- Predefined variables
 
- Limiting Java code called directly from JSP pages
- Day 3 Session 2: The JSP page directive -- structuring generated servlets
 
- Designating which classes are imported
 
- Specifying the MIME type of the page
 
- Generating Excel spreadsheets (conditionally and unconditionally)
 
- Participating in sessions
 
- Designating pages to process JSP errors
- Day 3 Session 3: Including Files and Applets in JSP Documents
 
- Including JSP files at the time the main page is translated into a servlet
 
- Including HTML or plain text files at the time the client requests the page
 
- Including applets that use the Java Plug-In
- Day 3 Session 4: Using JavaBeans with JSP
 
- Creating and accessing beans
 
- Setting bean properties explicitly
 
- Associating bean properties with input parameters
 
- Automatic conversion of bean property types
 
- Sharing beans
- Day 4 Session 1: Creating Custom JSP Tag Libraries
 
- Tag handler classes
 
- Tag library descriptor files
 
- The JSP taglib directive
 
- Simple tags
 
- Tags that use attributes
 
- Tags that output their body content
 
- Tags that modify their body content
 
- Looping and nested tags
- Day 4 Session 2: MVC: Integrating Servlets and JSP
 
- The Model View Controller (Model 2) Architecture
 
- Forwarding requests from servlets
 
- Using servlets to set up beans for use by JSP pages
 
- Two larger examples that use MVC
 
- Including JSP output in servlets
Day 4 Session 3: Database Access with JDBC
 
- Seven basic steps in using JDBC
 
- Connecting to Microsoft Access via the JDBC/ODBC Bridge
 
- Retrieving data from a ResultSet
 
- Using prepared and callable statements
 
- Submitting multiple statements as a transaction
Day 4 Session 4: Summary and Wrapup
 
- Servlet intro
 
- Handling form data
 
- Processing HTTP request headers
 
- Generating the HTTP response
 
- Using cookies
 
- Session tracking
 
- JSP intro
 
- JSP scripting elements
 
- The JSP page directive
 
- Including files and applets in JSP pages
 
- Using JavaBeans in JSP pages
 
- Creating custom JSP tag libraries
 
- MVC: Combining servlets and JSP
 
- Database access with JDBC
Day 4 Bonus Session: 
 Review/Preparation for the Sun Java Web Component Certification
 Exam
 
- Exam: Sun Certified Web Component Developer for the
 J2EETM Platform
 
- Exam objectives
 
- Answers and examples: servlets
 
- Answers and examples: JSP
 
- Answers and examples: design, strategies, and deployment
For more details or to schedule a course, contact the instructor
at hall@coreservlets.com.
About the Instructor
 
 
 Marty and Java inventor James Gosling at 
 Marty's car.
Marty Hall is the author of More Servlets and JavaServer Pages,
Core Servlets and JavaServer Pages,
and Core Web Programming from Prentice Hall
and Sun Microsystems Press. Core Servlets and JSP book is 
the single most popular book on servlets and JSP internationally,
was selected by amazon.com as one of the best five computer
programming books of 2001, 
has been the overall weekly #1 bestseller at fatbrain.com
nine different times, and spent more than six months
as one of the top 10 best-selling computer-related
books at amazon.com and at Borders stores nationwide.
Core Web Programming has been a best seller in industry as well
as being widely used in academia (including Stanford, MIT, Princeton,
U.C. Berkeley, UCLA, and Johns Hopkins).
Marty is a Senior Computer
Scientist at the 
Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Lab, where
he designs and develops distributed applications (mostly
for government clients) in
the Research and Technology Development Center. 
In addition to working full-time in research and development using
Java and writing Java programming texts, Marty has extensive
teaching and training experience, including short courses on JSP and servlets
in the US, Japan, Canada, Australia, and the Philippines. In 2000, he spoke on 
servlets and JSP to over 2,000 attendees at various conferences and seminars,
including at the national JavaOne conference in San Francisco,
the Evolve2000 Australian Java conference in Sydney, the US Department
of Defense, the Johns Hopkins CyberTech Seminar, and
the Space Telescope Science Institute. Marty's JavaOne talk
was rated by Sun as one of the most popular. 
In 2001, he spoke
on servlets and JSP at the International Conference for
Java Development, SD West, JavaOne, Comdex, and as the featured speaker at 
a special 
seminar on servlets and JSP
hosted by Casa Real in Tokyo. In 2002, he is scheduled to give
two servlet and JSP tutorials at JavaOne in San Francisco.
Marty has also taught numerous Java short courses 
for industry. Clients for on-site Java training courses include 
the Australian Distributed Systems Technology Centre, Context Integration Inc.,
Genomica Corporation, 
RWD Technologies Inc., General Motor's national R&D center,
General Dynamics Corporation, iDS Finance Inc., TransCanada Pipelines,
the Hopkins Applied Physics Lab, the Naval Undersea Warfare Center,
the Coast Guard Operations System Center, and Shepherd College.
For the last twelve years he has been an adjunct faculty
member in the 
Johns Hopkins part-time graduate program in Computer Science, 
where he received the 1998 Dean's Teaching Excellence award from the
JHU School of Engineering. In addition to teaching in this program,
one of the two largest graduate CS programs in the US, he also
directs two concentration areas within the program:
 
- Distributed Computing (in the Computer Science Program), and
 
- Web Technology (in the Information Systems and Technology
 Program).
Java Course Reviews
 
 On-Site Java Courses
 Other Java Courses
 
 Wonderful. In 20 years, this is the best organized, most pragmatic, 
 and enjoyable course I've taken. 
 Attendee at 2001 Servlet and JSP Short Course in Maryland 
 
 
 Best short course ever! 
 Attendee at 2001 Servlet and JSP Short Course in Maryland 
 
 Compared to the other short courses I have taken this one completely 
 redefined my scale from 1-10. 
 Attendee at 2001 Servlet and JSP Short Course in Maryland
	 
 I'm not easily pleased by industry courses. Luckily, not all
 presenters are as good as Marty, otherwise University lecturers
 like myself would be out of work. 
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Sydney Australia.
	 
 Marty is a fantastic teacher and communicator. I thoroughly
 enjoyed the course and it was timely for my current work.
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Sydney Australia.
	 
 It was the best way to survey Java servlets and JSP. I enjoyed
 every minute of Marty's interesting and knowledge-filled
 presentations. Standouts were his in-depth knowledge of the 
	 subject matter, accessibility, and genuine passion for Java.
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
 
 Totally fantastic, right level, right material.
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
	 
 It was an awesome course delivered by an extraordinary man. Yes, I 
 truly admire your in-depth knowledge, approach and ideas.
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
	 
 This was the most successful short course that I have taken 
 in the past five years. ... A Great Feat. Keep it up!
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
 
 Being a Microsoft Certified Instructor for seven years I 
 definitely give a top point to Marty. Discussions are well controlled,
 they were interesting yet weren't boring. Marty's knowledge is
 incredible.
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
 
	 Very well organized starting with servlets leading to an
	 easy transition to JSPs. Good examples to support the topics.
	 Attendee at 2000 Servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
	 
 Definitely the best computer class I ever took... I do
 not even know how you could have done a better job.
 Attendee at 1999 Java short course at
 the U.S. Coast Guard Operations System Center in West Virginia.
 
 Masterful, quick-paced presentation. Witty, but never trite. Discussed
 but never belabored. A Java ed-venture. A gaggle of Goslings could not
 have done better!
	 Attendee at 1999 Java short course at
 the U.S. Coast Guard Operations System Center in West Virginia.
 
 Superb! ... Great amount of information, clearly communicated and very
 good interaction with the audience.
	 Attendee at 1999 Java short course at
 the U.S. Coast Guard Operations System Center in West Virginia.
 
 Knowledge and style were both excellent -- Mr. Hall is among the best
 I have ever met.
	 Attendee at 1999 Java short course at NUWC in Rhode Island.
 
 Marty Hall is outstanding - invite him back! (Ratings: all
 5's on scale of 1-5 in 14 categories)
	 Attendee at 1999 Java short course at NUWC in Rhode Island.
 
 Good presentation of material geared toward programmers.
 Questions that instructor asked were though provoking and
 resulted in a better understanding of the material ... Knowledge
 excellent, presentation very good, can't think of any way to
 improve. (Ratings: all 5's)
	 Attendee at 1999 Java short course at NUWC in Rhode Island.
 
 
Johns Hopkins Java Courses
 This was the best class (instructor, style, content) I've ever
 taken in college. Not much to improve upon. (Fall '97)
 
 Outstanding. Best class I've had at JHU. (Fall '97)
 
 Incredible instructor. Learned so much useful stuff that will be
 directly applicable to my job. (Fall '97)
 
 Marty is the best instructor that I've had out of nine classes.
 (Spring '98)
 
 The course is great! Don't change anything! ... Marty Hall is
 the best instructor I've had for a JHU class and one of the best
 instructors I have ever had in any class. (Spring '98)
 
 I see why it's hard to get in the class -- APL wants to save the
 best for last -- excellent class, excellent teacher!
 (Spring '98)
 
 Best instructor I've had at JHU. (Summer '98)
 
 Top notch! Knowledge of material is remarkable. (Summer '98)
 
 Marty is the best teacher I've had at APL. He conveys
 subject matter in a style not unlike Jim Carrey. (Summer '98)
	 
	 
Miscellaneous
 It gives me great pleasure to inform you that you have been
 selected as one of three recipients of the 1998 Part-Time
 Programs in Engineering and Applied Science Excellence in
 Teaching Award. This is a very high honor indeed, especially
 when one considers that these programs are the largest of
 their kind in the country. Your selection was based on your
 consistently outstanding performance in the classroom and
 your development of the hugely successful Web course.
 (JHU Dean of Engineering).
 
 You are among the handful of exemplary faculty to whom I am
 sending this letter of gratitude. While this letter and
 recognition by your peers may be important, I hope you will
 take the greatest reward in the recognition that your
 students consistently give you on your evaluations by rating
 you as one of our best instructors. (Chairman of part-time
 graduate program in Computer Science).
 
	 Also see 
 reader reviews of Marty's 1st servlet and JSP book, 
 
 reader reviews of Marty's 2nd servlet and JSP book, and
	 
 reader reviews of Marty's general Java programming book (from amazon.com).
 
Schedule and Availability
Since most of these courses are taught at your location at
your convenience, there is no fixed schedule. However, I've done
five open enrollment (public) short courses
(click 
here for info on the next one).
For on-site courses, 
contact Marty to arrange
a mutually convenient time. However,
Marty has a number of engagements that make him unavailable at
various times. Here is a schedule of times when he is
not available:
2000
- Conferences at which Marty spoke in 2000: Evolve 2000 (Sydney), JavaOne (San Francisco),
 National Infosec Seminar Series (Ft. Meade). 
- Clients for on-site JSP and servlet courses and seminars in 2000:
 General Dynamics, Genomica, JHU/APL, iDS Finance (Manila, Philippines),
	Space Telescope Science Institute
- Public (open enrollment) JSP and servlet courses: Rockville, Sydney
2001-2002
- Week of 1/8/01. Public servlet and JSP training
 course in Rockville Maryland. 
- Week of 1/15/01. On-site servlet and JSP training course
 for TransCanada, Inc., Calgary, Canada. Also speaking
	at the Calgary Java User's Group.
- Week of 2/12/01 On-site servlet and JSP training course
 at Context Integration, Dallas.
- Week of 2/22/01 Servlet and JSP tutorial at
 International Conference for Java Development, New York City.
	Part of Sun JavaUniversity program. 
- Week of 3/19/01 On-site servlet and JSP training course
 at Context Integration, Denver.
- Week of 3/25/01 On-site servlet and JSP training course
 at JHU/APL, Laurel Maryland.
- Week of 4/9/01 Servlet and JSP mini course at SD West,
 San Jose. Followed by on-site servlet and JSP training
	course in San Francisco.
- Week of 4/23/01 On-site Java training course
 at JHU/APL.
- Week of 5/14/01 On-site servlet and JSP training course
 at JHU/APL.
- May 29 - June 1 Open enrollment
 servlet and JSP short course in Rockville. Open to the public.
- Week of 6/4/01 Full day servlet and JSP tutorial
 at JavaOne (part of JavaUniversity program), San Francisco.
- Week of 8/13/01 On-site servlet and JSP training course
 for TransCanada, Inc., Calgary, Canada.
- Week of 8/27/02 Open enrollment
 servlet and JSP short course in Rockville.
- Week of 9/3/01 
 Servlet and JSP seminars, Tokyo. Open to the public (in Japan).
- Week of 1/21/02 Public (open-enrollment) JSP and servlet
 short course, Dallas. 
- Week of 3/25/02 Two servlet and JSP tutorials at JavaOne 2002,
 San Francisco.
- Week of 4/15/02 Public training course: "Programming with
 Servlet and JSP Technology." Herndon, Northern Virginia. 
- Week of 4/22/02 Public training course: "Advanced 
 Servlet and JSP Programming." Herndon, Northern Virginia. 
- Week of 6/10/02. On-site servlet and JSP training course,
 Los Alamos National Lab.
- Weeks of of 6/24/02 and 7/1/02. On-site servlet and JSP training
 courses, Impact Innovations Group. 
- Week of 8/19/02. On-site servlet and JSP training
 course, Raytheon.
- Week of 9/17/02 Public (open enrollment) training course: "Programming with
 Servlet and JSP Technology." Herndon, Northern Virginia. Click
 here for details.
- Week of 9/24/02 Public (open enrollment) training course: "Advanced 
 Servlet and JSP Programming." Herndon, Northern Virginia. Click
 here for details.
