
Genesis spacecraft
Genesis spacecraft
NASA's Genesis spacecraft, the first mission to collect and
return samples of the solar wind -- fast moving particles from
the Sun -- is moving closer to launch. Scheduled for liftoff in
February 2001, the mission will help scientists refine the basic
definition of the Sun's characteristics, and understand how the
solar nebula, a large cloud of gas and dust, gave rise to our
complex solar system.
Genesis has received its final piece of science equipment: a
solar wind collector made of a new formula of bulk metallic
glass, composed of the same class of material as high-tech golf
clubs. It and other solar wind collector tiles on the spacecraft
will collect the first-ever samples of the solar wind as the
spacecraft floats in the oncoming solar stream.
"Comparing differences in what the Sun and the Earth are
made of yields interesting conclusions," said Dr. Don Burnett of
the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, the principal
investigator for the mission and leader of the Genesis team.
"What Genesis does is measure what the Sun is made of, so that
many important comparisons can be made."
On its return to Earth in 2003, the sample collected by
Genesis will be retrieved in midair by helicopters. Genesis will
have collected elements of the solar wind such as isotopes of
oxygen and nitrogen. The samples will be sent to laboratories for
detailed analysis.
Bringing back samples of the solar wind will provide the
next century of scientists with a databank of solar composition.
Because the outer layers of the Sun are composed of almost the
same material as the original solar nebula from which all our
solar system came, scientists will also learn more about
meteorites, comets, lunar samples, planetary atmospheres, and how
these components evolved.
The mission is designed to measure the composition of
isotopes in solar matter, to improve knowledge about the
differing amounts of elements, and to obtain separate samples of
different types of solar wind.
The body of the spacecraft contains a canister with
collector plates that fold out like blades on a pocket knife to
collect solar wind. The ions and particles that make up the solar
wind will embed themselves and be trapped in small hexagonal
plates on the circular blades.
A disk made of a mixture of metals that has properties
similar to other glasses, about the size of a coffee cup lid,
completes the science payload. It is a unique formulation of
bulk metallic glass created especially for Genesis. The shaft on
which the plates rotate is capped with the disk of new bulk
metallic glass.
In an odd mix of science and sports, golfers and Genesis
scientists both like bulk metallic glasses, but for different
reasons. Premium golf clubs can be made with a kind of bulk
metallic glass that is hard but springy. Scientists use a type
that absorbs and retains helium and neon, important elements in
understanding solar and planetary processes.
The new bulk metallic glass-forming alloy was designed by
Dr. Charles C. Hays in the materials science laboratories of Dr.
Bill Johnson of Caltech. It is a complex mixture of zirconium,
niobium, copper, nickel, and aluminum. The atoms of metallic
glasses solidify in a random fashion, unlike metals, which have
an ordered crystalline structure. This disordered atomic state
makes metallic glasses useful in a wide range of applications,
from aircraft components to high-tech golf clubs. The Genesis
metallic glass was prepared in a collaborative effort by Hays and
George Wolter of the Howmet Corporation, Greenwich, Conn., using
the same process the company uses for the high-tech Vitreloy-
based golf clubs.
The surfaces of metallic glasses dissolve evenly, allowing
the captured ions to be released in equal layers by sophisticated
acid etching techniques developed by the University of Zurich,
Switzerland. Higher-energy ions blast further into the metal's
surface. When samples are back on Earth, special techniques will
be used to etch the metal layer by layer, releasing the particles
of gas for laboratory study.
"One exciting thing about bulk metallic glass is that it
will enable us to study ions with energies higher than the solar
wind. This allows Genesis to test proposals that the higher
energy particles differ in composition from the solar wind," said
Burnett. This will be the first time the theories about different
kinds of solar wind can be tested by bringing back actual
samples, he said.
To bathe in the solar wind, the spacecraft only needs to fly
about 1.5 million kilometers (1 million miles) toward the Sun
(about 1 percent of the Sun-Earth distance). When it is in the
right position -- outside of Earth's magnetic field, between
Earth and the Sun where the gravity of both bodies is balanced,
called the Lagrange point -- the capsule will open its collector
arrays and let ions barrage its panels.
Wednesday, June 11, 2001
NASA'S next robotic space explorer is ready to do a
little sunbathing on a mission to catch a wisp of raw material
from the luminous celestial body around which the Earth and
other planets revolve.
Genesis, set for launch July 30 from Florida's Cape
Canaveral Air Force Station, is designed to collect tiny
pieces of the Sun and return them to Earth. The mission is
expected to capture about 10 to 20 micrograms of the solar
wind, made up of invisible charged particles expelled by the
Sun.
The particles, about the weight of a few grains of salt,
will be returned to Earth with a spectacular mid-air
helicopter capture. Scientists will preserve this treasured
smidgen of the Sun in a special laboratory for study. The
researchers hope to answer fundamental questions about the
exact composition of our star and the birth of our solar
system.
"This mission will be the Rosetta Stone of planetary
science data, because it will show us the foundation by which
we can judge how our solar system evolved," said Chester
Sasaki, Genesis project manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion
Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif. "The samples that Genesis returns
will show us the composition of the original solar nebula that
formed the planets, asteroids, comets and the Sun we know
today."
"Genesis will return a small but precious amount of data
crucial to our knowledge of the Sun and the formation of our
solar system," said Dr. Donald Burnett, California Institute
of Technology, Pasadena, who is principal investigator and
leader of the Genesis mission. "Data from Genesis will
provide critical pieces for theories about the birth of the
Sun and planets."
In October 2001, Genesis will arrive at a place in space
well outside Earth's atmosphere and magnetic environment that
will allow it to gather pristine samples of the solar wind.
The spacecraft carries four scientific instruments:
bicycle-tire-sized solar-wind collector arrays, made of
materials such as diamond, gold, silicon and sapphire,
designed to entrap solar wind particles; an ion monitor, which
will record the speed, density, temperature and approximate
composition of the solar wind; an electron monitor, which will
make similar measurements of electrons in the solar wind; and
an ion concentrator, which will separate out and focus
elements in the solar wind like oxygen and nitrogen into a
special collector tile. Sample collection will conclude in
April 2004, when the spacecraft returns to Earth. Genesis will
be the first mission to return a sample of extraterrestrial
material collected beyond the orbit of the Moon.
In September 2004, the solar samples will be returned in
a dramatic helicopter capture. As the Genesis return capsule
parachutes toward the ground at the U.S. Air Force's Utah
Testing and Training Range, specially trained helicopter
pilots will catch it on the fly to prevent the delicate
samples from being disturbed by the impact of a parachute
landing.
The samples will be taken to NASA's Johnson Space Center
in Houston, where the collected materials will be stored and
distributed for analysis. Scientists anticipate that, in
addition to today's capabilities, new analytical techniques
developed in coming decades can be used to study the solar
matter returned by Genesis.
Researchers believe the surface of the Sun, from which
the solar wind originates, has preserved the composition of
the solar nebula from which all the different planetary bodies
formed. Study of Genesis' samples is expected to yield the
average chemical composition of the solar system to greater
accuracy. It will also provide clues to the evolutionary
process that has led to the incredible diversity of
environments in today's solar system.
