
JADCentral : Technology Showcase : Insignia Solutions
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 Insignia Solutions
 
	 http://www.insignia.com 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 Description 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Insignia Solutions’ provisioning-infrastructure software enables wireless carriers and mobile device manufacturers to fully capitalize on the mobile service opportunity. Founded in 1986, Insignia is the market-share leading supplier of Java™ virtual machine software solutions for high-growth markets including mobile, digital TV, telematics, and embedded systems. Insignia's products have become integral to those capitalizing on the Java standard. Insignia's current product offering and those in development include:
· Insignia Enhanced MIDp/CLDC™ provides second generation foundation software with Insignia trademark acceleration techniques 
· Insignia AMS Studio™ optimizes mobile devices for carrier provisioning 
· Insignia Mobile Media Framework provides an industry standard rich-media API coupled with a portable high performance native code architecture 
· Insignia Jeode PDA edition has become the de facto standard implementation of Java on PDAs running PocketPC, Linux and other operating systems 
· Insignia Secure System Provisioning (Q402) breaks the fixed function phone paradigm by enabling wireless carriers to provisioning capabilities, not just MIDlets and applications, to devices and enables device manufacturers the ability to maintain device integrity after the point of sale 
Insignia products are integrated and supported by the Insignia Professional Services Group as well as an expanding list of integration partners. More than 40 million units of Insignia’s JVM™ technology are licensed by major partners including Samsung, Compaq, BSQUARE, Wind River, Fujitsu, Motorola and Siemens AG. Insignia Solutions is traded on NASDAQ under the symbol INSG. The company is headquartered in Fremont, California with R&D and European operations based in the United Kingdom, and its Asian HQ in Japan. For additional information about Insignia or its products please visit http://www.insignia.com.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 Contact Information 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 sales@insignia.com
	 (800) 848-7677
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Press Releases 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2002-06-26
	 
	 
	 
	 PalmSource to Extend Palm OS Reach with Unified Support for Java
	 PalmSource, Inc., provider of the world's leading operating system for handhelds and smart phones and the Palm OS(R) subsidiary of Palm, Inc. (Nasdaq: PALM) today announced that it is working with Insignia Solutions (Nasdaq: INSG) to create a standard Java interface to run on the Palm OS platform.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2002-06-03
	 
	 
	 
	 Insignia Demonstrates New Java-Enabling Technology for BREW Platform
	 Insignia Solutions (Nasdaq: INSG) demonstrated at the BREW 2002 Developers Conference today the first implementation of Insignia's Mobile FoundationTM software that enables the provisioning of JavaTM technology-based mobile services for QUALCOMM's Binary Runtime Environment for WirelessTM (BREWTM) platform.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2002-05-13
	 
	 
	 
	 Toshiba Includes Insignia's JavaTM-Enabling Technology for the New Pocket PC 2002 Based GENIO e550G
	 Insignia Solutions (Nasdaq: INSG) today announced that Toshiba's GENIO e550G for the Japanese market includes Insignia's Jeode PDA Edition product. The Toshiba GENIO e550G, powered by Microsoft Corporation's (Nasdaq: MSFT) Pocket PC 2002 operating system and the 400Mhz Intel®PXA250 applications processor from Intel Corporation (Nasdaq: INTC), is the fastest and smallest PDA in this product category.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2002-04-22
	 
	 
	 
	 Leading Rich-Media Vendors Align with Insignia Mobile Media Framework
	 Insignia Solutions (Nasdaq: INSG) today announced the first alliances with key industry leaders, PacketVideo, Beatnik, Cybiko, and Morphink, to deliver a wide range of rich media mobile services to second generation mobile Java technology-based devices. Last week, Insignia unveiled its high performance rich media platform for handset manufacturers and wireless carriers, and these partnerships further enhance the rich media capabilities of Insignia's end-to-end software solution.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2002-04-08
	 
	 
	 
	 Insignia Announces End-to-End Solution for Second Generation JavaTM Technology-Enabled Mobile Devices
	 Insignia Solutions (Nasdaq: INSG) today announced a suite of software products designed for next-generation JavaTM technology-enabled mobile devices. The end-to-end provisioning-infrastructure solution enables smarter provisioning and execution of rich mobile services and applications, designed to meet the needs of wireless carriers and handset manufacturers.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2002-04-08
	 
	 
	 
	 Insignia Leverages JavaTM Heritage to Target Burgeoning Mobile Market
	 nsignia Solutions (Nasdaq: INSG) today unveiled its strategy for the mobile marketplace. Insignia has built on its heritage of industry-leading JavaTM technology to launch an end-to-end suite of products designed for second-generation Java-enabled mobile devices. Supported by partnerships with leading mobile players such as Sun, Microsoft, ARM, Intel and Texas Instruments, this strategy places Insignia at the strategic center of the mobile services market.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Whitepapers 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Capitalizing on the Java Standard
	 Insignia's Approach to the Opportunities and Challenges of Next Generation Mobile Services
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
