
Java and JavaScript Programming, by Richard G Baldwin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Downloadable Files
A zip file 
containing all of the Java tutorial lessons plus an alphabetical index is now available 
for downloading. 
In addition, 
the zip file now contains a version of the 
Java links 
that is free of advertisements. These link files currently provide 
more than 500 links to high-quality Java 
resources, catagorized, alphabetized, and cross referenced to make 
it easier for you to find what you're looking for.
Printer Friendly: 
The contents of this zip file are very convenient for offline viewing and printing. 
Advertisements
have been removed. This makes the tutorial files more
suitable for printing, and saves paper, toner, and ink.
Free Updates: 
If you have purchased any of my Java tutorials within the past 90 days, 
you are now eligible for free updates. If you have purchased the tutorials within the past 
180 days, you are now eligible to purchase an updated version for 25% of the current 
price. If you have ever purchased the tutorials, you are now eligible to purchase an
updated version for 50% of the current price. To claim your update, download the
zip file, extract the file named aa-readme.txt, and follow the instructions contained therein.
Unzipping: 
Once you have download the zip file, you will need to unzip it using a decompression utility like 
WinZIP. 
Once the file is completely unzipped, you'll have a directory containing about 200 HTML files. Use your favorite browser to view and print the files. 
The alphabetical index 
files allow you to easily locate information contained in the three tutorials. Topics are listed in alphabetical order and are keyed directly to the individual lesson numbers. Here is a typical sequence of entries from the alphabetical index:
getDeclaredMethods - 260 
getDeclaringClass - 260 
getDefaultToolkit - 106 104 103 059 108 174 172 170 168 832 017 
getDefaultType - 725 
getDelay - 500 
Price: 
If you value your personal time (spent waiting for online lessons to be delivered by your ISP), pay for your Internet connection time by the minute, prefer not to see advertisements in printed versions of the tutorials, or prefer to view the link pages without advertisements, you will find this material to be well worth the price of $9.95.
To begin enjoying the material 
simply download the file (about 2.3 Mbytes). The first five or six lessons from each of the tutorials (Introductory, Intermediate, and Advanced) are not password protected. You can extract those lessons immediately and begin using them while making arrangements to obtain the password required for extracting the remaining lessons, the alphabetical index, and the link files.
To obtain the password, 
download the zip file, extract the file named aa-readme.txt (it is not password protected) and follow the instructions contained in that file.
All sales are final. The maximum liability assumed by Richard Baldwin for any and all issues related to the purchase is limited to providing 3.5-inch diskettes containing the tutorial material. 
 [ Home ] [ Tutorials ] [ Author ] [ Training ] [ Reviews ] [ Links ] [ Legal ] 
