
Absolute Java - Managerism
 
 
 
">Managerisms
 
	
 
 
 
What the manager says...
 
	
 
What the manager means...
 
	
 
 We have some challenges here. 
	There are some problems here but if I call
 them "challenges" maybe I'll subliminally "inspire" you to work harder to
 fix them. 
	
 
 We're on a compressed schedule. 
	We don't bother to gather requirements
 let alone do a design. After all, we're not even sure what we're supposed to be building. We just hack things together quickly to show the
 VCs. 
	
 
 We successfully met our deadline,
 now we're in "bug fixing" mode. 
	Our "compressed schedule" has ended
 and we didn't make our deliverables. Last night I transformed our "Feature
 List" into a "Bug List". We're still working on the same things
 as a month ago only now that our deadline has expired we're calling them "bugs". 
	
 
 I'll be investigating potential
 strategic advantages. 
	I'll surf the web looking for an
 embeddable Java database or an HTML editor or something...Hey, what's this?
 "Grandma's Favorite Old-Time Cookie Recipes". Hmmmm....that sounds
 neat. 
	
 
 We're working in "Internet time". 
	This is one of my favorites. Manager's
 love this expression because it sounds chic and makes them feel like they're leading the charge in some "Internet Revolution". Usually though, this is just
 a sexy euphemism for "we're on a compressed schedule..." 
	
 
 Don't deposit your checks until
 Tuesday. 
	Put your resume on Monster. 
	
 
 We need to work smarter, not harder. 
	If you don't meet the deadline
 it's not because I asked you to work longer hours,
 it's because you were not smart enough to figure
 out a way to get everything done. 
	
 
 Failure is not an option. 
	I could lose my job if you guys
 don't get this thing working. 
	
 
 We need to empower the developers
 to make strategic decisions. 
	I'm not very technical so you guys
 decide. 
	
 
	We're a pre-IPO company with an aggressive strategy to become market leaders. 
	We're a start-up company and we want you to work 60 hours a week. 
	
	
 I think a lot of really good things have
 come out of this project. 
	The project has failed and is being canceled but I've got to make it look like it was at least a partial success. 
	
 
Send in Your Managerisms
Your name (optional) 
	
 
Your e-mail (optional) 
	
 
What the Manager says... 
	
 
What the Manager means... 
	
	
 
	
	 
	
 
