
JADCentral : NewsCentral 
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 	 	
	 	
	 	 	
	 	 	 Headline 	 	 Date 	 	 	
	 	 	 Debate foams over SOAP 1.2	 
	 As the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) works to put the finishing touches on SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) 1.2, debate is heating up over Web services interoperability and SOAP's future in the Web.	 	 	 May 16, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Macromedia uses Jini for JRun 4 app server	 
	 Macromedia Inc. launched an upgrade to its JRun application server this week, complete with a pricing change and new clustering capabilities designed to boost application performance and improve uptime.	 	 	 May 14, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Integrate Java and C++ with Jace	 
	 Jace -- a free, open source toolkit -- lets you easily write JNI (Java Native Interface) code. This article analyzes in detail the JNI API's problems and how Jace solves them.	 	 	 May 10, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 IBM details next version of WebSphere app server	 
	 IBM further deepened its commitment to WebSphere as the center of its software development and integration strategies, formally announcing the next version of the applications server on Wednesday at its developerWorksLive conference.	 	 	 May 9, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Sun hails open-source meta data repository	 
	 Sun Microsystems on Tuesday plans to announce that it has contributed meta data repository modules to the NetBeans open-source development project as part of the Object Management Group's MDA (Model Driven Architecture) effort.	 	 	 May 8, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Jtrix: Web services beyond SOAP	 
	 This article describes Jtrix, an open source Web services platform for secure, roving applications. It examines the limits of existing standards, Jtrix's core model, and how Jtrix enables you to create Web services in such areas as hosting, disk space, and CPU time.	 	 	 May 6, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Microsoft reaches out to Java developers	 
	 Microsoft this week released a JDBC driver enabling Java developers to utilize Microsoft's SQL Sever 2000 database as a data management system for Java applications.	 	 	 May 3, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Creating JavaScript image swaps	 
	 The CSS trick we'll learn today looks an awful lot like a JavaScript rollover -- and I think you'll find it's fairly easy to implement as well.	 	 	 May 2, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Sprint releases enterprise IM	 
	 Sprint Monday released two enterprise messaging products for wireless access to instant messaging and e-mail.	 	 	 May 1, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 Navigate data with the Mapper framework	 
	 Developers working for organizations with many business relationships face the daunting task of reading, writing, and manipulating data records to and from their business partners. The Mapper framework is a Java- and XML-based design that seamlessly maps data records to and from any entity. Whether you must read records from a text file and write to a database table, or read from an enterprise information architecture and write to a Web service, information exchange becomes effortless using this simple design pattern.	 	 	 April 30, 2002 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 Headline 
	 
	 Date 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 Introduction to Databases for Web Developers
	 
	 Once upon a time, in the primitive and
barbarian days before computers, the amount of
information shepherded by a group of people could be collected
in the wisdom and the stories of its older members...
	 
	 	
	 February 6, 2002 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 EJB 2 and J2EE Packaging
	 
	 Have you noticed the number of different types of JAR files that you have to deal with lately in J2EE?! JAR files do not just hold EJBs anymore...
	 
	 	
	 November 12, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 Dealing with virtual paths when using JSP pages
	 
	 When you code server side components, you may need to
 get the physical path of a file from its virtual path relative to the web site root...
	 
	 	
	 November 8, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 Resolving Internet Addresses using Java
	 
	 It is easier for us, humans, to remember symbolic
names rather than a bunch of numbers, for example it is easier to memorize
the string fundy...
	 
	 	
	 November 2, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 J D B C: A Persistant Storage for Java Objects
	 
	 Persistant Storage is a non volatile place for storing the 
state of objects...
	 
	 	
	 October 29, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 SOAP-less Interplay
	 
	 SOAP is currently the centre of attention these days for XML-based, 
 cross OS, cross platform, cross programming language client and 
 web service interoperation...
	 
	 	
	 October 26, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 Understanding How CLASSPATH Works
	 
	 Classpath represents either an environment variable or a Java Virtual Machine (JVM)
command line option, such as /cp on Microsoft JVM or -classpath on Sun JVM...
	 
	 	
	 October 23, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 Dealing with virtual paths when using JSP pages
	 
	 When you code server side components, you may need to
 get the physical path of a file from its virtual path relative to the web site root...
	 
	 	
	 October 22, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 Upload / Download and database
	 
	 The upload and download of files are very useful
 processes in the world of the web, and especially for those who want to update a remote
 site in a very simple way...
	 
	 	
	 October 19, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 Establishing a connection with a DataBase
	 
	 Loading the driver
The first step is to install the driver on your server...
	 
	 	
	 October 18, 2001 
	 
	 	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 Headline 
	 
	 Date 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	 Headline 
	 
	 Date 
	 
	 
	
 
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 Headline 
	 
	 Date 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
	
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
