
JADCentral : CodeCentral : Techshowcase Downloads
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 Applets 
 
 
 Utilities 
 
 
 Multimedia 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 Database 
 
 
 Servlets/JSP 
 
 
 XML 
 
 
 Wireless Java 
 
 
 JUG Utilities 
 
 
 JavaBeans 
 
 
 Reference and Tutorials 
 
 
 Games and Entertainment 
 
 
 Techshowcase Downloads 
 
 
 Business Code 
 
 
 Unsorted Code 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	 Techshowcase Downloads 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 Downloads 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-27-2002 
	 	
	 Xyrian - J2EE application development
	 Xyrian provides instant architecture and functionality to simplify the creation and management of J2EE applications.
One of the many elements of Xyrian is an Application Programming Model (APM), which provides a ready-to-go architecture for J2EE applications. 
With the Xyrian APM in place you have an architecture to standardize your J2EE applications, pre-built Design Patterns that take the J2EE BluePrints to another level, and ready-made functionality for common use cases to save you time during development.
The product is fully supported online through its Tech Portal, which provides a central resource for developers to download the software, access online tutorials, search the Knowledge Base of support information, and, if required, raise support cases with the Helpdesk.
	 
	 
	 9 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-14-2002 
	 	
	 Groupboard
	 Groupboard is a set of multi-user java tools allowing you
to place whiteboards, chat and message boards on
your website.
	 
	 
	 28 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-03-2002 
	 	
	 WebLogic Workshop Beta
	 Designed to increase developer productivity on the BEA WebLogic Platform, reduce complexity and help developers in solving key integration issues, WebLogic Workshop enables new categories of developers to build enterprise class Web Service applications on the WebLogic Platform. WebLogic Workshop provides visual representation of Web Services, a design time environment for building, testing and debugging Web Services and a runtime framework providing a performing, scalable and reliable Web Services deployment environment on the WebLogic platform.
	 
	 
	 10 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-30-2002 
	 	
	 Atlassian JIRA 1.1
	 JIRA is a J2EE-based issue tracking and project management application. It handles all kinds of issues (including bugs, features, enhancements, and tasks) and can be used for bug tracking, development help, project management, or group task cataloging.
	 
	 
	 6 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-08-2002 
	 	
	 Davisor Chart
	 Davisor Chart is a web charting and reporting J2EE(TM) component suite, especially designed for server-side use. It provides a versatile set of components that enable Java(TM) developers and web authors to easily create and publish dynamic and interactive charts and reports. Advanced features include support for XML import and export, multiple data sources for a single chart, cache control and dynamic tables and calculations. Davisor Chart also enables Scalable Vector Graphics support and Self-Organizing Maps with the separate option packs.
	 
	 
	 91 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-01-2002 
	 	
	 The Big Faceless PDF library
	 It's small, fast, easy to use and integrate into your projects, and is completely written in Java. Features include: 
New! Digitally sign PDF documents (Extended Edition only) 
Import and edit existing PDF documents (Extended Edition only) 
Transparent Unicode support - create documents in Arabic, Russian or Japanese as easily as English 
TrueType and Type1 fonts, with subsetting for smaller files. Great for OCR. 
PDF Encryption, for password-protected documents (40 and 128 bit). 
Embed JPEG, PNG, GIF, TIFF or java.awt.Image images, or add Barcodes directly to the PDF 
Use Spot colors, calibrated ICC profiles and other advanced colorspaces 
Add HTML-style Hyperlinks to text or images 
Process 1000+ words a second with kerning, ligatures, justification and "curly quotes" for legibility. 
Simplify complex document creation by defining and applying "Styles" 
Full support for PDF features like bookmarks, compression and document meta-information. 
Non-linear creation of documents - pages can be created and edited in any order. 
Intelligent embedding. Fonts and images can be reused without increasing the file size.
	 
	 
	 77 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 2-25-2002 
	 	
	 Java Serial Port Lite Terminal Program for EPOC32
	 A Java terminal program for EPOC32. 
This application demonstrates the power of the SerialPort API
running on Symbian EPOC32-V5
The production version is so efficient it has been used for 
virtually any Java serial port application including collecting 
GPS data using Psion 5-mx device (36Mhz CPU)
	 
	 
	 28 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 2-24-2002 
	 	
	 An XUL Demonstration - Nexaweb
	 Code sample of Nexaweb's "smart client" technology that delivers full Windows/JFC/Swing look-and-feel over the Web, WITHOUT downloads or plug-in's of any kind. Based on XUL (Extensible User Interface Language), championed by Sun and Netscape. Works seamlessly with JSP on all J2EE application servers.
	 
	 
	 49 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 2-15-2002 
	 	
	 Productivity! 1.15 for Borland JBuilder
	 Productivity! is genuine and rich set of tools intended to greatly simplify routine coding and navigation operations. As result, it allows significantly speedup of your development productivity.
All Productivity! tools are carefully designed and tuned to minimize efforts needed to invoke and use them so you can enjoy friendly environment Productivity! offers. 
Productivity! allows you: 
- Forget about typing your imports! 
- Forget about annoying dialogs and Wizards while you are coding! 
- Discover context and navigate through it! 
- Use hyperlinks to surf and to get informed! 
- Free navigate through your classes, methods and fields! 
- See quick help for classes and methods exactly where and when you need! 
- Add super interfaces or change super class in several simple steps! 
- Override methods and constructors in couple clicks! 
- Add access methods for you fields instantly! 
- Use your own unique naming standards! 
- And finally forget that you are using Productivity! - just enjoy your favorite IDE, interesting work and your superior performance! 
Try Productivity! to add unleashed power to your JBuilder environment!
	 
	 
	 55 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-14-2002 
	 	
	 Davisor Offisor
	 Davisor Offisor is a Pure Java software component for transforming the content of popular but hard-to-read office documents to standard XML. The first two supported document input formats are Microsoft Word™ and real-world HTML.
	 
	 
	 47 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-04-2002 
	 	
	 RHCE@Whiz- Red Hat Linux (RH 302) Certification Te
	 RHCE@Whiz comprises of 5 Mock Tests (250 Questions) on the latest pattern of Red Hat Linux Certification (RH 302) Exam. The salient features include High Level of Customization, Detailed Explanation, Quick Revision Tips, scorer of the month and much more.
	 
	 
	 24 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-19-2001 
	 	
	 Davisor 2D
	 The Davisor 2D library is a collection of custom JSP™ 1.1 tags. It can by default produce the image formats PNG, JPEG and WBMP. Davisor 2D can also be used to produce image buttons on the fly. The component is Jimi and JAI compatible.
	 
	 
	 60 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-28-2001 
	 	
	 Easysoft JDBC-ODBC Bridge
	 A Type 3 JDBC driver that allows JDBC access to any local or remote ODBC data source.
	 
	 
	 70 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-21-2001 
	 	
	 ViewletBuilder
	 ViewletBuilder creates animated online demos of how software works, perfect for training and support. Cursors glide across the screen, menus and dialog boxes open, etc., all while text balloons and audio describe the action. Files are light (dial up modem friendly), no plug-in is necessary, and content is compelling and fun.
	 
	 
	 71 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-10-2001 
	 	
	 ColorKVM
	 The ColorKVM (Build 10, multi PDB) with a ROMized version of kAWT v0.9903 with support for 16 Bit colordepth on VISOR Prism. It is not necessary to add the kawt.pdb file to run the KawtSample or any other kAWT application.
	 
	 
	 15 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-13-2001 
	 	
	 DB/XML Vision
	 DB/XML Vision is a cost-effective solution for simple database to XML conversion projects. The software automatically creates XML documents containing hierarchical data from any database for B2B applications, EDI, database integration and conversion. Its powerful Tree-Structured-Query tool offers the unique feature of query-in-and-structured-XML-out with no need to write any code to structure your result set.
	 
	 
	 108 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-21-2001 
	 	
	 Fieldworrker GPS Demo
	 FieldWorker GPS makes GPS data logging and attribute information gathering simple. The FieldWorker GPS product collects GPS data from any NMEA compliant GPS receiver and then hides the complexity associated with GPS by offering a series of user friendly choices. FieldWorker offers three ways to collect a single position, including two averaging options that can be used to increase the accuracy of the final position by as much as 50 %. FieldWorker can collect forms based attribute information, points, lines and polygons, digital photos and sketches and can exchange that information with a variety of GIS systems. 
FieldWorker offers a 'Trail' option where readings are taken at regular time and distance intervals, FieldWorker supports the use of laser guns and Navigation, and if differential GPS is used to obtain greater accuracy, FieldWorker will also provide a warning if the differential signal is not performing according to user defined standards.
FieldWorker GPS for mobile field data collection has been utilized by major corporations and government institutions for years in application environments ranging from Geology to Forestry, Mining, Archaeology, Environmental and Conservation, as well as having been favorably reviewed in such well known publications as GeoSpatial Magazine and Field Force Automation
	 
	 
	 48 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
