
 
 
 Micro Java Network - The J2ME Resource : Perspective Articles 
 
	
	
	
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	Articles 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Perspective Articles 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Tech Talk 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Product Reviews 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Interviews 
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Technologies
	 
 
 
 
 
 	
	
	
	J2ME 
	
	
	 
	-CLDC 	
	
	
	 
	 
	-MIDP 
	
	
	 
	 
	-EmbeddedJava 
	
	
	 
	 
	-kJava 
	
	
	 
	-CDC 	
	
	
	 
	 
	-PersonalJava 
	
	
	Other 
	
	
	 
	-BREW 	
	
	
	 
	-iAppli 	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	Moving Your Application from Wired to Wireless? 
	
	
	 	
	
	Cingular's Sr. Manager of Wireless Developer Program, Cliff Hass, discusses the new-found ease of developing wireless applications with J2ME using a network connection and running across multiple devices.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	2002 - The Year for Mobile Operators to Support Killer Applications 
	
	
	 	
	
	As mobile operators look to generate cash from subscribers, all eyes are on what this year's killer apps will be; but Bruce Jackson says there will be none until operators put a system in place to deliver them.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Billing for value-based 3G services 
	
	
	 	
	
	As mobile networks develop towards 3G services, operators face one of their biggest challenges so far: billing for them. Gavin Freed argues that operators should learn from the Far East and become more like shops than network managers.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Java One 2002: Daily Updates 
	
	
	 	
	
	MJN has total coverage of JavaOne 2002!!! Check back for daily updates about the conference and the impact of J2ME on the future of mobile computing.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	The Wireless Web is Approaching Adolescence 
	
	
	 	
	
	Looking at the technology and development requirements for the wireless Web to transform from a static environment to a dynamic experience.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	The Battle For BREW, J2ME And Related Technologies 
	
	
	 	
	
	The battle lines are being drawn between Sun and QUALCOMM supporters about whose technology will emerge as the standard mobile application environment and programming language.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Taking Your App to Market 
	
	
	 	
	
	Your application is up and running, now how do you get it to the people and start making money? ATG may have the answer.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	From PersonalJava to J2ME 
	
	
	 	
	
	The line between J2ME and PersonalJava becomes increasingly blurred with every new profile, device and implementation. Paulo takes us through the history of the technologies and tries to bring the lines more into focus.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Device Convergence and the Relieved Burden 
	
	
	 	
	
	The inevitable merger of PDAs and cell phones will decrease the weight load on your belt, but will the hybrid devices live up to your technological needs?
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	A Note to Developers from JavaOne 
	
	
	 	
	
	This year's Java mega show was a true showcase for Micro Java technologies; and JavaOne sent a clear message to J2ME developers. Were you listening?
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	MJN: Bringing JavaOne to You 
	
	
	 	
	
	MJN is knee-deep in Java at this week's JavaOne Conference in San Francisco, providing you daily updates of all the J2ME-related announcements, innovations, and companies.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	J2ME Raves at Cingular's WAVE 
	
	
	 	
	
	Micro Java technology received enormous support at the WAVE 2001 Convention presented by Cingular Wireless, and J2ME application development factors greatly in Cingular's plans. See what they had to say about the future of wireless technology.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	SyncML and Micro Java Development 
	
	
	 	
	
	The development community is continually striving for industry-wide standards, but the integral synchronization component remains a fragmented area. The SyncML initiative is attempting to remedy that situation.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Java Mobile Technology Conference Overview 
	
	
	 	
	
	The first ever U.S. conference dedicated to Java technology on mobile devices was an overwhelming success. Now we need to work together to solve the problems discussed and ensure the success of Micro Java technology.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Wireless Java Conference Overview 
	
	
	 	
	
	Siemens Wireless Java Conference in London offered some insight into some very influential views about mobile standards, but will a true standard ever come to fruition?
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Wireless Java Development Reigns Supreme 
	
	
	 	
	
	A recent survey of developers shows Java as the platform of the future for mobile development. MJN had the opportunity to speak to the industry analyst about his findings.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	IWW 2001: Questions Answered, Some Remain 
	
	
	 	
	
	The recent wireless convention offered many answers to the questions of the Micro Java community, including some promising news from Motorola, but what is the outlook for the future of Java in the wireless industry.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Micro Java and the Financial Vertical 
	
	
	 	
	
	The availability of information has historically both created and destroyed fortunes. Current mobile devices give financial institutions real-time access to information -- Micro Java will give them the ability to capitalize on it.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Internet World 2001: a Preview 
	
	
	 	
	
	Micro Java Network prepares for the first-time wireless convention in New York City, and seeks resolutions to many problem issues concerning Micro Java development.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Recession and J2ME 
	
	
	 	
	
	The new economy has sunk its teeth into the dot-com world, but how will it affect emerging mobile technologies? We believe that the economy's loss could be the technology's gain.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	An Overview of Motorola Games Developers' Seminar 
	
	
	 	
	
	UK correspondent Alex Dean takes us inside this week's games developer seminar in London. His observations reveal a lot about how Motorola and the developer community is embracing Micro Java.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	So Where Does Palm go from Here? 
	
	
	 	
	
	Palm's market share is enormous, but they don't seem to be doing anything to solidify this. Their leadership must begin to set strategic goals that venture further than the obvious.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	The Golden Spike 
	
	
	 	
	
	Is J2ME the spike that will join hardware and software? We put an historical spin on the wireless industry and try to determine what technology will prevail.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	J2ME: Why Now? 
	
	
	 	
	
	With the release of Java phones being continually pushed back, is it still practical to develop business applications in J2ME? Micro Java believes so, and if you care about the future of your applications, you should listen.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Weary is WAP 
	
	
	 	
	
	WAP is at a crossroads and all paths lead to disaster. We seem to be building the modern Tower of Babel; everyone concerned wants to contribute to the greater goal of creating a wireless standard that will cross platforms and carriers while providing all the benefits of the web. 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	MAGNET Center 
	
	
	 	
	
	Motorola opened its first U.S. MAGNET Center (Motorola Applications Global NETwork) to provide developers of wireless technologies with tools, resources, and access to industry experts.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Converging Worlds, Emerging Technologies 
	
	
	 	
	
	Take a look into the crystal ball to see the forces that control the wireless Internet, and the technologies that will drive progress in the future.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Why WAP Should Worry 
	
	
	 	
	
	After rising quickly and burning brightly in the wireless sky, WAP is on the brink of extinction. Micro Java Network chronicles WAP's history and makes an astounding declaration about the future of the wireless golden child.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	Wireless Developer 2000 Conference: an Overview 
	
	
	 	
	
	Jeff Sider gives us an overview of the goings-on at the Wireless Developer 2000 conference. Have a look at his observations on what is happening with Java and the Wireless World.
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 	
 	
	
	
	
	News
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Crisp Wireless mLogic and Sun ONE Studio IDE Deliver Tools for Rapid Development of Mobile Content and Community Applications
	
	-07/16/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Verizon Wireless Selects Vindigo To Deliver Downloadable Location-Based Application
	
	-07/11/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Matsushita Communication Selects Nokia's Software Platform for Future Wireless Multimedia Phones
	
	-07/11/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	LightSurf and Carview to Deploy eSwitch-Powered Services to Wireless Users Throughout Japan 
	
	-07/10/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Wireless Games Player receives BREW Award
	
	-07/09/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	J-Phone announces two wireless 'Sha-Mail' handsets
	
	-07/09/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Serving BREW of fun, talk
	
	-07/08/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Sun Brews New Java For Cell Phones
	
	-07/08/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Wireless gaming over a cellular network will be worth 4.4 billion
	
	-07/08/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Rocket Mobile Launches Suite of Wireless Applications
	
	-07/05/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	about us | contact us | contribute | advertise | discussions | privacy | 
	register
	Copyright © 2000 - 2002 Micro Java Network
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
