
Mars Global Surveyor
Mars Global Surveyor
Previous Updates:
The imaging team of NASA's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft
has doubled the number of Mars pictures available to the public
with the release of a new archive of red planet pictures totally
slightly more than 30,000 images.
The archive contains all the pictures that were taken by
Mars Global Surveyor from September 1999 through February 2000
and includes the images that were taken to search for the Mars
Polar Lander spacecraft.This
includes changes observed on the south polar cap's "Swiss cheese"
surfaces, among others.
A sample of images is available at
http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/mgs .
Mars Global Surveyor was launched on November 7, 1996 and
entered orbit around Mars on September 12, 1997. The spacecraft
has been systematically mapping the red planet since March 1999.
NASA's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft, currently
orbiting Mars, simultaneously snapped both a wide-angle and
high-resolution view of Hale crater that show gullies --
possibly carved by water -- in the peaks of sand dunes inside
the crater.
The Global Surveyor images, which support findings
release last spring, are available at
Photo Journal ,
Mars Global Surveyor or
Mars Images .
Current Updates:
In what ultimately may be their most significant discovery 
yet, Mars scientists say high-resolution pictures showing layers 
of sedimentary rock paint a portrait of an ancient Mars that long 
ago may have featured numerous lakes and shallow seas.
"We see distinct, thick layers of rock within craters and 
other depressions for which a number of lines of evidence 
indicate that they may have formed in lakes or shallow seas. We 
have never before had this type of irrefutable evidence that 
sedimentary rocks are widespread on Mars," said Dr. Michael 
Malin, principal investigator for the Mars Orbiter Camera on 
NASA's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft and head of Malin Space 
Science Systems (MSSS), San Diego, Calif. "These images tell us 
that early Mars was very dynamic and may have been a lot more 
like Earth than many of us had been thinking."
Such layered rock structures where there were once lakes are 
common on Earth. The pancake-like layers of sediment compressed 
and cemented to form a rock record of the planet's history.
The regions of sedimentary layers on Mars are spread out and 
scattered around the planet. They are most common within impact 
craters of Western Arabia Terra, the inter-crater plains of 
northern Terra Meridiani, the chasms of the Valles Marineris, and 
parts of northeastern Hellas Basin rim. The scientists compare 
the rock layers on Mars to features seen in the American 
Southwest, such as the Grand Canyon and the Painted Desert of 
Arizona.
"We caution that the Mars images tell us that the story is 
actually quite complicated, and yet the implications are 
tremendous. Mars has preserved for us, in its sedimentary rocks, 
a record of events unlike any that occur on the planet today," 
said Dr. Ken Edgett, staff scientist at MSSS and co-author of the 
Science paper. "This is changing the way we think about the early 
history of Mars -- a time perhaps more than 3.5 billion years 
ago."
"On Earth, sedimentary rocks preserve the surface history of 
our planet, and within that history, the fossil record of life. 
It is reasonable to look for evidence of past life on Mars in 
these remarkably similar sedimentary layers," said Malin. "What 
is new in our work is that Mars has shown us that there are many 
more places in which to look, and that these materials may date 
back to the earliest times of Martian history."
Malin added, "I have not previously been a vocal advocate of 
the theory that Mars was wet and warm in its early history. But 
my earlier view of Mars was really shaken when I saw our first 
high-resolution pictures of Candor Chasma. The nearly identically 
thick layers would be almost impossible to create without water."
As an alternative to lakes, Malin and Edgett suggest that a 
denser atmosphere on early Mars could have allowed greater 
amounts of windborne dust to settle out on the surface in ways 
that would have created the sedimentary rock.
"We have only solved one little piece of a tremendous 
puzzle," Malin said. "There is no illustration on the box to show 
us what it is supposed to look like when it is completed, and we 
are sure most of the pieces are missing."
"These latest findings from the Mars Global Surveyor tell us 
that more study both from orbit and at the surface is needed to 
decipher the tantalizing history of water on Mars," said Dr. Jim 
Garvin, Mars Exploration Program Scientist at NASA Headquarters. 
"Our scientific strategy of following the water by seeking, 
conducting in-situ studies, and ultimately sampling will follow 
up on these latest discoveries about Mars, and adapt to the new 
understanding."
"Mars seems to continually amaze us with unexpected 
discoveries," said Dr. Edward Weiler, Associate Administrator for 
Space Science at NASA Headquarters. "This finding just might be 
the key to solving some of the biggest mysteries on Mars, and it 
also tells us that our new Mars exploration program needs the 
flexibility to follow up in a carefully thought-out manner."
"The finding of layered sedimentary deposits is something 
that biologists have been hoping for," said Dr. Ken Nealson, 
director of the Center for Life Detection at JPL. "Perhaps the 
favorite sites for biologists to search for fossils or evidence 
of past life on Earth are layered lake or oceanic sediments such 
as in these sites Malin and Edgett describe."
