
Free Java Help --- Articles --- Forte Review
 
July 16 ,2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advertise | 
Feedback | 
Link To
Us | 
Legal | 
Links | 
Glossary
 | 
Privacy
 | 
BURST! Survey 
 
 
	
	 NeoProfile
	
	
NeoProfile is a new website by the makers of FreeJavaHelp. It enhances the capabilities
and powers of AOL Instant Messenger Profiles.
	 
	 Tutorials
	
	
We provide detailed yet easy to understand Java and JavaScript
tutorials which will speed along your learning process.
	 
	 Articles
	
	 
Our articles discuss common topics and questions about Java or JavaScript. Many
articles are written by the requests of users.
	 
	 Forums
	
	
Have a question which you need answered? Come to our forums and ask away! We'll answer
them to the best of our ability!
	 
	 Applets
	
	 
The applets section contains a variety of interesting applets with source code for studying or your
personal use.
	 
	 E-zine
	
	 
Our e-zine section is where we post previous issues of The FreeJavaHelp Reporter for you to read.
	 
	 Contribute
 
	
	 
The contribute section allows you to submit articles, tutorials, or other content to be posted on
Free Java Help.
	 
 
	
	
 
	
	
Forte Review 
 
What is Forte?
 Forte is a Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) 
made by Sun. It basically is a program for writing Java programs. The thing that makes Forte
so drastically different from just the simple JDK is that it uses a Graphical User Interface,
which makes it much more user friendly than using JDK through DOS. The goal of Forte
is to make life easier for the programmer. All of the things Forte does can be done with the normal
JDK, it is just harder with the JDK.
What is so good about Forte?
 I just started using Forte yesterday, and am quite impressed with
it. Sun did a very nice job with this product. I would have to say that probably the best thing
about Forte is the ease of creating a new "project". For example, I might want to make a new applet.
In DOS, first you would have to create the .java file with all the code needed to begin an applet, 
such as the class name and having it extend applet, etc. etc. etc. After a while, typing the same
stuff over and over again can get pretty annoying (well, for those of us who are lazy anyway :) ). Then
you have to make an HTML file with an applet tag which points to the appropriate class.
 
In Forte, to begin a new applet, just go to File, then "New From Template". 
Then you choose the Applet template under the Classes folder. Next it asks you for the class name. In the example
I give you, the class name will be freejavahelp. You click okay, and the following pops up in the code window:
/*
 * freejavahelp.java
 *
 * Created on October 31, 2000, 5:18 PM
 */
/**
 *
 * @author Jim H
 * @version 
 */
public class freejavahelp extends java.applet.Applet {
 /**
 * @param args the command line arguments
 */
 public void init () {
 }
}
 Then, it gets even better. You can type in a little code, click one
button to compile instead of typing "javac -g freejavahelp.java". Then when it is done compiling you simply
click the play button. It is really really simple. 
 Another feature that I just learned how to use by reading the manual (within the last five minutes, thats how simple it is)
is the Form Editor. This is an incredible feature for the newbie who might not know how to use components himself.
Basically what it does is allow you you set up Graphical User Interfaces really easily. You click on
the component you want (such as Button, Label, or Choice), and then you click where you want it to go on the
form based on the layout you chose. Doing this enters the code into the Java file for you. In short, what the Form
Editor does is much like what Visual Basic does. It allows you to set up a GUI extremely easily, even if you have
no brain at all. You can use AWT or Swing with this.
 Another advantage of the form editor is that it can help you to learn about parts
of Java you might not be familiar with. I personally am not very familiar with Swing, and rather than buy a book
on Swing, I will just fiddle around with the form editor and will see what code comes up because of it. Yay :)
Disadvantages:
 Believe it or not, there are some definite problems with Forte. One is that it
makes Java easy. Too easy. You might think this is good, but in some cases it is not. To a newbie, learning the
language is very important. If you just click where you want components to go, you will never know how to do it
without the Form Editor. If you ever need something completely customized, you won't be able to do it, because you
learned how to drag and drop components, not how to write the code for them.
 Another problem that I see with Forte is the speed. I downloaded Forte for my old Pentium
120mHz. I would go to launch Forte, and it was so slow it wouldn't open. I let my computer sit for hours, and it didn't
open. The screen wasn't frozen either. Even when I open it on my new 1gHz, it takes 30 seconds to load. This may
seem like not bad, but this is 10 seconds longer than it takes me to boot up Windows Millenium, and 30 times the amount of
time it takes me to load Internet Explorer 5.5 . So I think it is safe to say it is pretty slow.
Overall Impression
 It is needless to say that I am very impressed with Forte. I recommend it to anyone
who has a computer who can handle it and who already knows Java. If you don't know Java, please try to not use Forte
until you do. It will help you tremendously in the end to be able to code your applets without dragging and dropping
components. The download is only 12 or so megabytes, and can be downloaded from Sun's website.
 
 
 
Email
 
Username
Password
 sign up 
 
Search 
Search for:
Search:
Entire Document
Title Only
Match:
Any Terms
Exact Phrase
 
 
Partners 
NeoProfile
Webmaster Lane
Ivewon.com
Hitler Was Wrong
That was Random!
 
 
FreeJavaHelp E-Zine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2000 FreeJavaHelp.com . All
Rights Reserved.
