
Tour of Dunn's River Falls, Jamaica, West Indies
Dunn's River Falls
The tour of Dunn's River Falls begins in Ocho Rios at the Renaissance Motel. It's a twenty minute boat ride away from the motel. While on the tour, we were able to climb the falls, which are a good 600 feet above sea level, come down for snorkeling, and then given beverages of our choice. Red Stripe beer was one of our choices. We couldn't have anything else for the simple fact that it was a Jamaican tour and they only provide Jamaican beverages on the tour. Below are some of the items we'll be mentioning. This is one adventure you'll remember for life and will always want to go back to.
 
 
At the Renaissance, we boarded the boat "Freestyle" that you see pictured to the left. Prior to boarding, one of the locals entertained us on his well-weathered guitar with some reggae music. On board, people were supplied with snorkel gear for the snorkeling trip after the climb of the falls. After snorkeling, refreshments were served while dancing and listening to various Jamaican tunes.
The tour lasts three hours. The boat ride runs along the coast of Ocho Rios over breath-takingly beautiful blue waters of the Caribbean to Dunn's River Falls. There, you are asked to remove any loose belongings, give your cameras to the guides, and prepare for the experience of a lifetime--the climb up Dunn's River Falls.
On the climb up the falls, it is suggested that you join hands as you go because of the currents. However, if you choose not to hold someones hand, you are climbing at your own risk. Sometimes the guides will allow more courageous climbers to scale steep ledges rather than take the easy way.
Every-so-often, the guides will stop to allow for picture taking. This is where you can prove to people you know that you actually did climb the falls. Make sure you know your camera because the guides job is to take the picture, not to figure out how to get the best picture. It is a wise idea to bring a camera that is very simple to use, click and done. It is not the guide's job to figure out how your camera works, just to take the pictures.
After the challenging climb up the falls, everyone then walks down the trail back to the boat for the snokeling part of the expodition. The trail slithers down the side of the falls so you can get an arial view of where you just came from. The trail leads you back to the dock where you came from. It is here where you can suit up for the snorkeling tour. Once you're ready, you can view the Crystal Reef off the coast of Dunn's River. For those who are first-timers, you will be warned not to touch the black, spiny urchins that are attached to the reef. They are considered very poisonous.
 Finally, you get to relax from the activities by choosing the beverage of your choice and listen to local and well-known reggae music as you make your way back to the Renaissance Motel. Don't get too comfy. The guides will try their hardest to get you up dancing, shouting, and having fun as you finish the tour.
The cruise can be arranged through your Red Stripe tour representative. Just ask the clerk at the front desk of your hotel, your travel agent, or look for the brochure once you get settled in you room. Take the time to "sail through paradise".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 Search by: 
 
 
 Keyword
 Title
 Author
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C++ Tutorial | Extras | Family | Graphics | Honeymoon | Java Tutorial | JavaScript Tutorial | Links | Home | Computer Resource Center | Soccer | Space Exploration | HTML Tutorial
