
Khalid and Rasmussen the Marcus Green Interview
 
 
 
 
Mughal and Rasmussen talk to Marcus Green
 
Khalid Mughal and Rolf Rasmussen are the authors of "A programmers 
 guide to Java Certification" published by Addison Wesley. This book concentrates 
 solely on the Java programmers exam. It is 750 pages long and is packed with 
 information, sample questions and exercises. It is also well illustrated. One 
 of the things that pleased me when I first opened it is that the authors have 
 published their email addresses in the book. They very kindly agreed to an email 
 interview and here are my questions and the answers they provided.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marcus Green talks to ....
 
 
 
 
Khalid Mughal and
 
 
 
Rolf Rasmussen
 
 
MG: How come Scandinavia is such a hotbed of high tech?
RWR: I'm not sure that I can accurately describe this phenomena. 
 One factor might be that the Scandinavian countries have more or less sane laws 
 related to technology. Laws such as the ban of software patents, and legalizing 
 reverse-engineering help to create a good research environment and a marketplace 
 that promotes healthy competition. I wouldn't rule out geographical placement 
 either; Scandinavia seems sufficiently far away from the base of the industry 
 giants, to allow small companies to take innovation in new directions without 
 being dwarfed and subsumed by the big corporations.
KAM: Technological development is also seen in the light of improving 
 the quality of life at all levels. The region’s geography dictates that. The 
 small fish is a big pond analogy is also relevant, but some big fish are also 
 emerging. I am also under the impression that outside interests are moving in 
 a lot sooner as new innovations come off the drawing board. It will be interesting 
 to see if the region continues to be a hotbed for high tech as globalization 
 continues its march.
MG: Has the book sold well, met your expectations? 
KAM: The book hit the market in September last year. As far as 
 we can judge from the initial figures, the book has done well. Feed back from 
 the readers indicates that it has been well received. We are delighted with 
 the reader reviews. The publishers wants to move forward the next printing of 
 the book, which was scheduled for February. We are very grateful to the readers 
 for bringing to our attentions the errors in the book. These will be corrected 
 in the next printing. Meanwhile the most up-to-date errata can be found at 
http://www.ii.uib.no/~khalid/pgjc/jcbook/errata.html. 
 
We encourage our readers to send us feedback. 
RWR: We've only seen the figure for the two first months of sale, 
 but we're pleased by what we've seen. It seems book is selling very well. Overall, 
 we're very pleased by the reception the book has gotten.
MG: What is the story on the web site and exam simulator ? 
 
RWR: At one time we had a discussion on whether to include a CD-ROM 
 with the book. Including a CD-ROM in the back-cover seems very popular with 
 computing books. The contents of CD-ROMs from all Java books is nearly always 
 the same: The Sun JDK and accompanying documentation, a couple of "demo"-versions 
 of popular IDEs, and perhaps some source code from the book and a few trinket 
 programs.
RWR: Unfortunately, due to the rapid evolution of the software 
 industry, most of the contents of the CDs are obsoleted by newer version within 
 a few months of publication. This combined by cost estimates of including a 
 CD-ROM made us opt for distributing the software using the Internet instead. 
 The JDK and the usual "demo" software are already freely available on the net. 
 So we decided to create a supporting web site for the book that would contain 
 the stuff specifically related to the book, and provide links to software such 
 as the Sun JDK.
RWR: Unfortunately, the AWL web site suffered some technical difficulties 
 that reduced the effectiveness of the supporting book web pages. Many people 
 had a hard time find the supporting web pages, and the registration process 
 didn't deliver the exam simulator as promised. The whole book registering process 
 idea was probably hatched by some eager marketing person at AWL. There is no 
 need to "register" the book in order to receive the exam simulator. Simply locate 
 the supporting web pages and download the exam simulator. The situation was 
 made worse by the web site staff allowing some of the archive available for 
 download to get corrupted. Fortunately, it seems that we've managed to clear 
 up all the problems now.
RWR: The marketing people were very excited about giving an exam 
 simulator along with the book. (I think the basic idea was that since some other 
 certification books offers a simulator, so should we.) I've been a little unsure 
 about the value of an exam simulator compared to a mock exam with detailed annotated 
 answers such as the one we provide in the book. Even if it in the end is mostly 
 a gimmick, the exam simulator at least serves to familiarize the user with conditions 
 similar to the real exam. That in itself is of some value.
RWR: There is room for improvement in the exam simulator. If time 
 permits, I'd like to improve the exam simulator and provide newer version for 
 download on the book website. I'd also like to clean up the code a little, and 
 release the full source code for the exam engine as a bonus. However, I'm unsure 
 if I'll have time to do this anytime soon.
KAM: The decision to not include a CD with the book was deliberate. 
 An effective web site can serve the same purpose for disseminating extra resources 
 complimentary to the book. However due to technical difficulties at the publisher’s 
 end, the effectiveness of the web site was reduced initially. Readers who contacted 
 us directly were promptly dispatched the necessary material. We maintain a mirror 
 site at http://www.ii.uib.no/~khalid/pgjc/jcbook/index.html. Check it out if 
 you have a problem.
MG: How would you change the certification process to improve 
 it? 
RWR: The poorest part of the certification process is actually 
 the wording of the exam objectives. They do not properly reflect the scope of 
 the actual exam, and the layout is confusing and illogical. I also have some 
 misgivings about the usefulness of the current architect exam.
RWR: Compared to some other certification exams, the exams from 
 Sun Educational Services are good in that they for the most part requires a 
 firm grasp of the language in order to pass. However, I see indications that 
 some people are able to pass the exams without actually knowing the language 
 all that well. The certification process should ensure that certified programmers/developers 
 are proficient in the language. This is also reflected in the approach we took 
 for the certification book. It concentrates on allowing the reader to actually 
 master the language and thereby be prepared to take the exam, rather than just 
 providing the what is believed to be "bare essentials" needed for the exam. 
 KAM: I agree with Rolf that the poorest part of the current setup 
 is the exam objectives. It is hard to believe that with so much riding on Java, 
 such an amateur job is done in formulating and presenting the objectives. And 
 this is the most essential information that is needed to prepare for the exam. 
 I find it hard to believe that this situation has not been rectified so far. 
 It is not surprising that many who have taken the exam have complained that 
 the objectives do not correctly reflect what can be asked on the exam. 
MG: How do you ensure everything is covered for technical proofreading? 
RWR: We’ve gone through the material numerous times ourself, and 
 we've had the fortune of being able to call upon many knowledgeable people to 
 review the manuscript at various stages. We also built test harnesses to extract 
 the source code from the manuscript and test compile it, so that we were able 
 to catch most of the errors popped up during the course of editing. 
KAM: One thing we learnt is that peer review is essential at various 
 stages. We certainly appreciated the feedback from the reviewers, and I think 
 this is reflected in the quality of the book. Tools that can take the drudgery 
 of proofreading certainly help. My wife Marit, who is not a computer-literate, 
 read the manuscript twice just to make sure that if a non-programmer could "understand” 
 what was written, then a Java programmer would hopefully not have any problems. 
 She now regrets not having taken the exam right after reading the manuscript! 
http://www.blackdown.org/ 
 
http://sourceware.cygnus.com/java/
MG: What operating system and JVM do you use? 
RWR: Personally I've I use mostly GNU/Linux and Sun Solaris. We've 
 also made extensive use of Microsoft Windows and MacOS during the production 
 of the book. We believe in being truly platform independent. The JVMs I mostly 
 use is the Sun JDK Linux port by the Blackdown porting team . On Solaris, I 
 use the standard JDK from Sun. I've also been following the developments of 
 the libgcj project with great interest.
 KAM: We can truthfully say that the code in the book was run 
 under Windows, MacOS and Solaris. Under Windows and Unix, we used the JVM with 
 the Sun JDK, but under MacOs I used the JVM from Apple. 
MG: What do you do for work when you are not writing technical 
 books? 
KAM: I am on my sabbatical at Cornell at the moment. Enjoying 
 a brief reprieve at the moment. I am interested in application of distributed 
 object technology in different problem domains, in particular distant learning. 
 I hope to spend my remaining time at Cornell looking into web-based tools for 
 distant learning, before heading back to Bergen at the end of July. 
RWR: I'm currently putting the finishing touches on my master 
 thesis at the University of Bergen. I have an impending obligatory military 
 service to serve, which will keep me busy for most of the year 2000. 
MG: Do you find yourselves swamped with email? 
KAM: I will not say we have been swamped. We receive moderate 
 amounts of e-mail which we try to reply regularly. We certainly appreciate all 
 the feedback. Apart from helping us in catching errors, a fair number have also 
 helped us to clarify certain points in the book. Most corrections will be incorporated 
 immediately in the next printing. But keep the e-mails coming! 
RWR: The mail generated by the publication of the certification 
 book has remained at moderate levels. I'm grateful for all the feedback that 
 I've received on the book, and to all the people that have helped us in creating 
 a good errata list for the book. This allows us to weed out the mistakes people 
 have found for the next printing of the book. 
MG: What do you think are the most important developments in 
 Java recently?
RWR: On a down note, I'm sad the see that Sun once again has pulled 
 out of a standardization process of the Java language at the eleventh hour. 
 I would have liked to seen Java becoming an ISO or ECMA standard. A positive 
 trend I've seen lately, is the increase in quality of the JVM. Java has for 
 a long time been held back by JVM riddled by bugs, incompatibility and sluggishness. 
 It seems the situation this is steadily improving, even on platforms outside 
 the mainstream. With a little more work, Java might come close to being the 
 holy grail of cross platform development that Sun purports it to be. 
RWR: In recent news, I am thrilled by the decision by FSF and 
 Cygnus to merge their libgcj and Classpath projects together. This will help 
 in the quest to produce a good open source (free software) implementation of 
 the Java runtime. 
KAM: Apart from the standardization process being on the rocks, 
 I think what worries me most is lack of incorporating some essential language 
 features in Java. I am thinking of parameterized types. On the runtime side 
 I think the picture is more rosy. Java is gradually but surely making inroads, 
 at least as far as front-end (GUI) clients are concerned. But I think it still 
 has some distance to go before delivering its promise of "write once, and run 
 everywhere”. 
MG: Are you working on a new book? 
KAM: We have some offers, mostly pertaining to an intro book on 
 programming using Java with our special take on how it ought to be done. :-) 
 We are also debating whether this venture should not just be another traditional 
 book but also an e-book (or it an i-book?). We hope to have some clarification 
 soon. 
RWR: We're considering several options, but we have no definite 
 plans yet. 
MG: Thanks to both of you for taking the time to answer my 
 questions and good luck with the book
You can buy the book from Amazon at
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0201596148/jchqjavaprogramm
The most recent version of this document appears at
http://www.jchq.net/Interviews/mughalras/mughalras.htm
Marcus Green 2000
 
