
 
 
 Micro Java Network - The J2ME Resource : Welcome to MJN 
 
	
	
	
 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	 	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	Technologies
	 
 
 
 
 
 	
	
	
	J2ME 
	
	
	 
	-CLDC 	
	
	
	 
	 
	-MIDP 
	
	
	 
	 
	-EmbeddedJava 
	
	
	 
	 
	-kJava 
	
	
	 
	-CDC 	
	
	
	 
	 
	-PersonalJava 
	
	
	Other 
	
	
	 
	-BREW 	
	
	
	 
	-iAppli 	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Strategies For J2ME MIDP/J2EE Integration Over HTTP
	by Michael Taylor
This report from Developnet examines the various methods available for passing data over HTTP for J2ME MIDP/J2EE applications.
	
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	J2ME IDE Comparison 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	-by Michael Taylor
This report from Developnet provides an in-depth review of market-leading IDEs that provide facilities for J2ME development using MIDP/CLDC. 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Wireless Java: Developing with J2ME 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	-by Jonathan Knudsen
MJN readers have been given the opportunity to preview the newest J2ME book, "Wireless Java: Developing with Java 2, Micro Edition." This excerpt discusses creating user interfaces with J2ME.
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	Moving Your Application from Wired to Wireless? 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	-by Cliff Haas
Cingular's Sr. Manager of Wireless Developer Program, Cliff Hass, discusses the new-found ease of developing wireless applications with J2ME using a network connection and running across multiple devices.
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	New Downloads
	 
	
	
	
	 
	Dr Bok
	Guide Dr. Bok around the cliffs, collecting the magic spheres scattered around the terrain.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Adventurer
	Collect the bombs and defeat the various enemies throughout the game.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Coolaz Comics
	Read comics on your mobile phone and get daily updates of some popular titles.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Cave
	Guide the worm through the ever narrowing cave avoiding the walls and the obstructions in this exciting game for Nokia Java-enabled phones.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Destroy N Catch
	Destroy balloons with your helicopter's missiles and catch all the boxes with your truck.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	DS Snake
	A nice J2ME version of the classic snake game.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	DeskNow
	Instant group collaboration, from PC, PocketPC and J2ME, including email, calendars, todos, message boards, address books, etc.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	DS BlackJack
	A nice J2ME version of the classic blackjack game.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Juggling
	This juggling application, allows you to enter new juggling patterns, upload the new patterns to the server, and download patterns created by others. 
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	PushBack
	PushBack is a version of Rock, Paper, Scissors for your mobile phone.
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Mobile Horoscope
	Get your daily horoscope for your mobile phone!
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Rubik2d
	If you like Rubik's cube, you'll like being able to play it whenever you want with a Rubik's Cube on your phone!
	
 
	
	
	
	 
	Numbers
	A numbers puzzle game.
	
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 	
 	
	
	
	
	Register
	 
	
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
	MJN's free registration is quick and easy. Sign up today to get the most out of MicroJava.com!!!
	
	
 Sign Up
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	Featured Sections
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Java Devices Galore
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	All of the information about Java-enabled devices throughout the world. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	J2ME Resource Books
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	MJN has a comprehensive list of all of the J2ME-related books. 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	News
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	Crisp Wireless mLogic and Sun ONE Studio IDE Deliver Tools for Rapid Development of Mobile Content and Community Applications
	
	-07/16/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Verizon Wireless Selects Vindigo To Deliver Downloadable Location-Based Application
	
	-07/11/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Matsushita Communication Selects Nokia's Software Platform for Future Wireless Multimedia Phones
	
	-07/11/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	LightSurf and Carview to Deploy eSwitch-Powered Services to Wireless Users Throughout Japan 
	
	-07/10/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Wireless Games Player receives BREW Award
	
	-07/09/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	J-Phone announces two wireless 'Sha-Mail' handsets
	
	-07/09/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Serving BREW of fun, talk
	
	-07/08/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	Sun Brews New Java For Cell Phones
	
	-07/08/2002 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	Discussions
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	J2ME CLDC Forum 
	500 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	MIDP Forum 
	559 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	kAWT Forum 
	68 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	CDC Forum 
	32 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
 
 
 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	about us | contact us | contribute | advertise | discussions | privacy | 
	register
	Copyright © 2000 - 2002 Micro Java Network
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
