
JADCentral : CodeCentral : Games and Entertainment
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 Applets 
 
 
 Utilities 
 
 
 Multimedia 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 Database 
 
 
 Servlets/JSP 
 
 
 XML 
 
 
 Wireless Java 
 
 
 JUG Utilities 
 
 
 JavaBeans 
 
 
 Reference and Tutorials 
 
 
 Games and Entertainment 
 
 
 Techshowcase Downloads 
 
 
 Business Code 
 
 
 Unsorted Code 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	 Games and Entertainment 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 Downloads 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 7-03-2002 
	 	
	 Checkmate Chess ver 1.0
	 In CheckMate two human players can play the Chess in the same computer or over an intranet. Changes and moves made by one will be reflected in the other player's computer. 
Featues: 
* Can be played in local machine or over the network by two players 
* Cool Graphics 
* Drag and drop pieces to make moves with the mouse 
* Move validation-only valid moves are allowed. You cannot cheat!!!! 
* Castling and promotion allowed 
* Check warning provided 
* Replay Option: Previous game can be replayed for analysis 
* Network players can chat while playing 
* Game time provided 
* Help tips pop up when required 
* Help files provided
	 
	 
	 31 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 6-25-2002 
	 	
	 Key boxing!
	 A simple, but addictive, game in which two players try to press keys as quickly as possible.
	 
	 
	 7 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-26-2002 
	 	
	 mikroDaleks
	 The original Daleks game ported over to the J2ME(CLDC && MIDP) platform for use on UR favorite mobile devices!=) It's actually serving as a special release for the prerelease of our J2SE debut title - Xkape. Xkape will B a 3D Applet version of Daleks with a few new features and the such. Check back at www.ikrisis.com regularly for more info on this and upcoming projects!=)
	 
	 
	 22 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-15-2002 
	 	
	 CalendarBean, Version 1.1
	 IMPORTANT FEATURES
===================
All Java Programmers are aware that neither the Java AWT nor the Java Swing classes provide a Date Selection Java Component and we all have to code this feature all by ourselves or if we can afford than purchase a 3rd party Java Bean. But things will be different henceforth. This Calendar is absolutely Free. It has been developed with the sole intention to help Java Developers.
CalendarBean is a useful Java bean that helps you to Choose a Date from an On-Screen Calendar.
- A very small jar file (just 40-kb) can be easily ported on the net.
- This bean is made out of Java Awt classes and does not use swings
Thus it works well with both, Applets and Applications.
- You can customize many attributes of this bean by modifying its properties either through an IDE or through the methods provided.
- A range of constructors and set methods which can take 
java.util.GregorianCalendar/java.sql.Date object as well as int ( yyyy mm dd ) so that you can easily assign dates to the bean. Corresponding get methods are also provided.
- Setting Range: Min and Max Dates.
- Customise colors of various parts, to suit your Container.
- Add a Calendar Listener to get notification of Date Changes.
- A rich set of Date Formats.
- A rich set of other Date related functions and features.
	 
	 
	 85 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-27-2002 
	 	
	 Jigsaw Puzzle Applets 1.1
	 These Java jigsaw puzzle applets differ in functionality regarding control over the number of pieces a given JPEG picture should be cut into, the manipulation of the background, the playing area colors, and the addition of sounds to successfull placement of jigsaw pieces. Also, in the StrategicBusiness version, you can forward a player to any programmable URL when they have finished the game successfully. All the versions have four message lines placed in the outermost corners of the playing area. When registered, customers receive puzPatch.exe, which allows them to replace the messages with their own text.
	 
	 
	 106 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-07-2002 
	 	
	 Java Diet
	 Count your calories consumption and loose weight.
J2ME MIDP App!!!
	 
	 
	 88 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-07-2002 
	 	
	 Blokoks 1.01
	 This breakout style game was written only as a quick
demonstration. It was my first Java game and took about 20
hours to code in total. It was never meant to be anything
amazing. However the game is very small to download and without
the graphics could be even smaller so one day it may become a
loading game. Full Source, Gfx and Sfx are included in the zip
file.
	 
	 
	 165 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-02-2002 
	 	
	 Simon Says
	 The classic game of Simon Says has come to your MIDP device. Simply repeat Simon's moves to advance; each round becomes progressively more difficult. See if you've got what it takes to go the distance with Simon!
	 
	 
	 56 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-02-2002 
	 	
	 LasDamas v.1.1.7
	 A checkers game for your MIDP device. Can you beat the computer?
	 
	 
	 56 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-26-2001 
	 	
	 Online Euro Calculator.
	 countries into one and each other, as well as into the Euro-value. It's
small, accurate and easy to use.
	 
	 
	 52 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-19-2001 
	 	
	 Jtetris
	 A java applet .
	 
	 
	 154 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-07-2001 
	 	
	 JavaMATHs
	 Plotter function. Good accurracy Simply use
	 
	 
	 103 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-04-2001 
	 	
	 Quiz game w/ editor + applet
	 edit and maintain your own questionnaires, play with them (the computer
asks questions and the user answers), and make possibly progressive
programs of questionnaires for pupils in a classroom. Now provided with
a java applet that allows you to put your questionnaires on the web.
Special requirements: A web browser (only to run the applet).
Changes: Additional features added, java applet added.
	 
	 
	 185 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-30-2001 
	 	
	 Amiglobe
	 Amiglobe is a world atlas and database with information about every country in the world.
You can choose from four map projections including flat, Peter's, Mercator's
or spherical. You can easily zoom in on any area to display cities, rivers,
and main peaks. You can scroll around the map with keys, mouse and/or mouse
wheel. You can also display the night and day areas, locate a city or country on the map using a drop down list. The map can be printed or exported to other softwares. Some cities have links on photos on the Web.
	 
	 
	 337 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
