
JADCentral : CodeCentral : Unsorted Code
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
 Applets 
 
 
 Utilities 
 
 
 Multimedia 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 Database 
 
 
 Servlets/JSP 
 
 
 XML 
 
 
 Wireless Java 
 
 
 JUG Utilities 
 
 
 JavaBeans 
 
 
 Reference and Tutorials 
 
 
 Games and Entertainment 
 
 
 Techshowcase Downloads 
 
 
 Business Code 
 
 
 Unsorted Code 
 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	 Unsorted Code 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 Downloads 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 5-30-2002 
	 	
	 Useful extensions/implementations (Mostly JTable)
	 I have zipped up a bunch of code I've developed that seems untilitarian enough to be useful to the community. 
It includes
1) Various editors with a common interface, so you can use polymorphism to get and set values the same way.
2) Extensions to the AbstractTableModel interface that allows row headers, sorting, and row insertions/deletions 
3) A DebugSettings class to globally set a debug levels for your entire application. 
4) An extension to JTable with some nice work-saving methods. 
5) Implementations of the TableCell Editor and Renderer interfaces based on the EditingComponent interface. Useful for easily setting up editors for your JTable on a cell by cell basis.
5) A few more useful classes you can explore. 
Some of these classes are in well tested/well documented state, some are not. I think all of them will be useful as a reference, particularly if you are using JTables in a sophisticated manner.
If you make any improvements please contact me at miteke@yahoo.com
	 
	 
	 39 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-23-2002 
	 	
	 Little Java program for performance measuring
	 Little Java program for performance measuring
	 
	 
	 63 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 4-01-2002 
	 	
	 XProcs for Delphi, Converted To JAVA
	 FREE JAVA version of XProcs. XProcs, is a popular free function library for Delphi, that features functions for strings, dates and times, and even bit manipulations. It includes: - bit manipulation routines - string routines - date/time routines - encryption routines - math routines - rectangle routines
	 
	 
	 29 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 3-25-2002 
	 	
	 JConfig - Advanced file/file-type/process handling
	 JConfig is a Java library that provides advanced file, file-type, and process handling. It fills in the gaps in the core Java API. It runs on Windows, Mac, Linux, Unix, and most other platforms, and it includes the complete source code (Java and C++.) For instance, you can enumerate the user's hard drives, launch processes, get the file type of a file, launch the user's default web browser, and perform many other functions which are difficult or impossible using just the built-in Java libraries. See http://www.tolstoy.com/corejava.html for a comparison between JConfig and Java's built-in class libraries.
	 
	 
	 69 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-13-2002 
	 	
	 JCombi
	 JCombi is basic java class for COMBINATORICS
	 
	 
	 35 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-07-2002 
	 	
	 JavaSQZ
	 JavaSQZ - a Data Compression Class for JAVA developers
	 
	 
	 59 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 1-03-2002 
	 	
	 Passwords
	 Encrypt and store your internet usernames and passwords on to your device for easy access.
	 
	 
	 155 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-26-2001 
	 	
	 Optimizes Java class files
	 methods, strings, constants, attributes; optimizes constant pool and
byte code; removes the debug information. The size of files can be
reduced up to 50%. Yours applets will be smaller and faster.
	 
	 
	 133 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 12-20-2001 
	 	
	 Blazix Java Web and Application Server 1.1
	 From the developer: "High-performance Java Server, supports J2EE technologies of EJB, Servlets, JSP and JMS. It includes an EJB wizard, JSP debugging support and a JSP tag library to make development easy. Full clustering support for enterprise applications. Live updates of web applications and EJBs. Release 1.1 also includes ION ((Interfaces Over the Network), a very simple and direct way of doing distributed computing in Java."
	 
	 
	 58 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 11-13-2001 
	 	
	 Connection Pool
	 This is a generic Connection Pool implementation.
	 
	 
	 468 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-20-2001 
	 	
	 Three basic network programs
	 This file contains three programs. IpDns takes either the IP Address or
DNS name of a machine and returns the other. PortScan takes a host name
and scans for open ports on ports 0-65536. UrlRead takes a URL and
returns its contents in text form to the standard out.
	 
	 
	 278 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
