
Free Java Help --- Articles --- Command Prompt Problems
 
July 16 ,2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advertise | 
Feedback | 
Link To
Us | 
Legal | 
Links | 
Glossary
 | 
Privacy
 | 
BURST! Survey 
 
 
	
	 NeoProfile
	
	
NeoProfile is a new website by the makers of FreeJavaHelp. It enhances the capabilities
and powers of AOL Instant Messenger Profiles.
	 
	 Tutorials
	
	
We provide detailed yet easy to understand Java and JavaScript
tutorials which will speed along your learning process.
	 
	 Articles
	
	 
Our articles discuss common topics and questions about Java or JavaScript. Many
articles are written by the requests of users.
	 
	 Forums
	
	
Have a question which you need answered? Come to our forums and ask away! We'll answer
them to the best of our ability!
	 
	 Applets
	
	 
The applets section contains a variety of interesting applets with source code for studying or your
personal use.
	 
	 E-zine
	
	 
Our e-zine section is where we post previous issues of The FreeJavaHelp Reporter for you to read.
	 
	 Contribute
 
	
	 
The contribute section allows you to submit articles, tutorials, or other content to be posted on
Free Java Help.
	 
 
	
	
 
	
	
Command Prompt Problems 
 
 ARTICLE REQUEST:
 The hardest thing I find about java is
running it from the command
 prompt. Could you do an article from installation to running
an application
 and an applet? I've got the javac thing down, but the
rest...
 Okay, whoever submitted this request is
simply awesome! Not only did you submit a request (which I always love), but
you also wrote more than two words! :) To those of you who are submitting
article requests, the more you write in the request, the more likely I will be
to write an article! Thank you!
 Quite frankly, having to compile java files
from the command prompt and using the command prompt in general can be a pain
in the butt for the average Windows user. When I first installed the JDK on
Windows (maybe a year or so ago), I used to get SO frustrated because I
had absolutely no clue how to do anything.
 Installation of the JDK can be a pain in
itself. The biggest problem that I had was understanding CLASSPATH and PATH.
Basically, you have to point PATH to the folder with javac, java, appletviewer,
and all the other programs that come with the JDK. You also have to point
CLASSPATH to the folder where classes.zip resides. These variables can be found
in autoexec.bat. To learn more about installation of the JDK, go to our
tutorial here.
 If you set the two variables above
correctly, then you should be good to go and use JDK. Compiling is pretty easy,
there is a good explanation of how to do it here.
 In the days when I first started
programming in Java, I tried to execute Applets using java
appletclassname.class. This never worked, and I soon found out that the
java command is used to execute applications, not applets. The main difference
between the two is that applets put into HTML documents, and applications are
not. To test your applet, copy the following text into notepad, replace
classname.class with the name of your class file (with the .class exstension).
Then save it as an HTML file (whatever.html). It must be saved in the same
folder as the class file 
 Now, if you have a browser that supports
Java (most do), you can open your browser, then open the HTML file that you
just created. Your applet should come up, as long as there are no errors.
 There is another alternative for executing
applets, though. Currently, I am on a p120, so I don't want to run Netscape
unless I absolutely have to. I use the appletviewer program included with JDK.
It takes up a lot less system resources than a browser. To use the appletviewer
program, simply open a dos-prompt, get into the directory where you saved your
HTML file to, then type appletviewer whateveryounamedit.html . Not too
bad :)
 I personally rarely write Java
applications, but when I do, I execute them with the java command. Just open a
dos-prompt (command prompt) and get into the directory where your classfile is.
Typing java classname should work. You shouldn't need to type the .class
extension.
To whoever requested this article:
If I did not cover what you wanted, email me at freejavahelp@freejavahelp.com ,
and tell me more what you are looking for, and I will gladly add more. Thanks
again.
 
 
 
Email
 
Username
Password
 sign up 
 
Search 
Search for:
Search:
Entire Document
Title Only
Match:
Any Terms
Exact Phrase
 
 
Partners 
NeoProfile
Webmaster Lane
Ivewon.com
Hitler Was Wrong
That was Random!
 
 
FreeJavaHelp E-Zine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2000 FreeJavaHelp.com . All
Rights Reserved.
