
	
	About this web site
	
	
	
	
About this web site
Why did I create it?
I had the idea for this web site around November 1998 after
passing the Sun Certified Java Programmers exam and finding there was
a shortage of material freely available on the web. I was looking for
a project to try to make the jump from a Visual Basic programmer to
the world of Java but I kept coming up against the problem that
without experience I could not get a job, and without a Job I could
not get experience. 
I considered attempting to create some fancy piece of Java
software to impress potential employer. I couldn't think of an
appropriatly impressive yet easy to build piece of software and
decided on this web site instead. The benefit of creating a web site
is that a small amount of incomplete helpful information is instantly
useful whereas an incomplete program is not so useful. Another
benefit is that I have learnt a huge amount about creating and
running a web site. 
Who actually writes and designs all of this stuff?
All the text you read on the site was created by me unless
indicated otherwise. However I have received around 2,000 emails
related to the site and many of them have contained extensive
corrections so it has has been improved extensively by outside
contributions. 
Do I make money from it? 
The web site is certainly not a money making activity in the
traditional sense. I have never actually done the calculations but it
has cost me the equivalent of several thousand dollars not including
many hundreds of hours of my own time. However it helped me get my
current job and if I am ever on the job market again I would not
expect it to do any harm The revenue from Associates schemes just
covers my hosting costs so I can have a reasonable URL and a decent
ISP. So in the long run it might make me money indirectly but I am
not holding my breath.
Can I pay Marcus huge sums of money to advertise?
My email address is mail@marcusgreen.co.uk
Do many people look at the site?
Yes the site gets a good deal of traffic for such a technical
topic. The numbers I am about to quote are for March 2000 so they
will be instantly out of date. I get approximatly 30,000 requests for
the front page of the site per month, but if you were to draw a graph
of accesses over the last year it is very steep curve. About 60% of
accesses are return visits, implying that the site is fairly
"sticky". 
There are lies, dammned lies and web stats but I have a feeling
that is a good figure for this type of site. You can see todays
figures at 
http://u.extreme-dm.com/?login=zamcram
I believe that the counting software uses cookies to track the
uniqueness of each access.
Where in the world are these site visitors based
There is a bias towards the USA and India but they come from all
over the world.
How can you help?
You can simply stroke my ego by telling me how wonderful the site
is and what an awesome job I have done. On a more constructive level
I always appreciate corrections both technical and grammatical. If
you believe that something does not compile however, please check it
through java.exe first. Let me know if you find any Java
Certification resources that I do not have links to on the site (most
of them are in the FAQ). If you find some good Java tutorial stuff or
have pages of your own, let me know and I will probably link to them.
I'm gradually adding links to web sites that run associates schemes.
This means if you buy a product as a result of clicking on a link
from this site I get a commission on the purchase. These are mostly
products I have purchased myself. So if you buy from those links you
are help fund the continuation of this site. 
What tools do I use?
HTML
I had a free copy of Symantec Visual Page which seemed to be
simple and elegant. When they bought out Version 2 I upgraded it and
in the process they seemed to have utterly broken it. I bought a copy
of HotMetal Pro 5 and just never came to terms with it. It just
seemed to be ugly and the link checking was broken. Later on I got to
appreciate the tag mode and the HTML check but by then I had moved on
to Dreamweaver. I got a copy of 1.2 free with a magazine. It has a
wierd interfaced which I suspect is partly due to its history of
running on the Mac and PC. Once you get over that it is excellent.
Where I work we exclusivly use the latest greatest version for web
page development
Dreamweaver
Buy
from Amazon.com
Buy
from Amazon.co.uk
I would like to move to an all Linux environment but at the moment
there is not much in the way of HTML editors. I have tried w3 orgs
Amaya but it is wierd and experimental. I would pay real money for
something as usable as Visual Page Version 1, or Dreamweaver. Please
don't suggest vi or Emacs (though I do like them for programming).
Books
My two favorite HTML books are from Instant HTML from Wrox
and the HTML & XHTML The Definitive Guid from O'Reilly. I'm mostly using
Dreamweaver or some HTML editor so I don't need to refer to them
often. The O'Reilly book is bigger, fatter and more expensive, buy
that book at the following link. 
Buy
from Amazon.com
Buy
from Amazon.co.uk
The Wrox book is a compact, smaller programmers reference. buy
that from the following links.
Buy
from Amazon.com
Buy
from Amazon.co.uk
Site management
I got a free fully functional copy of Astra Site manager free with
a magazine and it does an excellent job of automatically checking
links. I usually do my ftp uploads with dreamweaver but I have a copy
of WS_FTPLe for other ftp transfers.
Operating Systems
Win95 and RedHat Linux 7.0
You can buy the genuine original RedHat article with support and a
book from the likes of Amazon (and if you click the link I get a
little commission), but as Linux is GPL software
(http://www.gnu.org), you can get the unsupported version at very low
prices from many other sources. But for the boxed product ...
Buy
from Amazon.com
Buy
from Amazon.co.uk
ISP
Positive-Internet because they seem to know what they are doing
and offer servlet support. This is very rare here in the UK.
Previously I was with U-net who do a good job of keeping a nice net
pipe open but seem to concentrate on business customers.
Browsers 
If it runs in Netscape it will probably run in IE. I have been
playing extensivly with Mozilla and when Mozilla 1.0 arrives I will
probably switch to it as my default browser.
Newsreader
FreeAgent
Graphics
Paintshop (some old copy), Corel Gallery with 1,000,000 images for
off the shelf clip art. These days I intend to use the Gimp as its
free and very full featured. The windows version was a bit flaky last
time I used it but in its native environment of Linux it is
brilliant. Although you can find web sites with free clip art I ended
up spending ages searching and never actually found anything I would
use. Clip art can really only do so much and it is probably worth
getting people with some artistic ability to create graphics, even if
it costs real money. If you can't do that, then bite the bullet and
buy something like Corell Gallery because got hold of several other
clip art packages with fewer images and was disappointed. 
Email
Netscape 4.7
Favorite Search Engine
Google by a wide margin
Web Log Stats
Extreeme tracking for live info from the front page and analog for
going over the Apache logs for all the other pages.
Word Processing
MS Word 97, Sun Star Office and considering WordPerfect for Linux
when it comes out and if they don't force us to buy the entire office
suite
Java Environment
Vi, JDK 1.1 mainly at home. Forte at work, JBuilder at home
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
