
NET IN ARCADIA
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net in Arcadia
 
A Virtual Museum Dedicated to
 Contemporary Classicism 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NET IN ARCADIA, is the Virtual
 Museum of Contemporary Classicism, exhibiting works by Alfred Russell,
 Andree Descharnes, their daughter, Elsie
 Russell, and other artists interpreting classical themes and material. These like-minded artists share a humanistic and
 atemporal vision unique in the post-war world of Modernist Art. They explore various
 aspects of the Western Figurative Tradition to express the human condition. We have used
 Nicolas Poussin's "Et in Arcadia Ego", which Alfred Russell copied in the Louvre in 1956, to symbolize this
 vision. Each artist is represented by a core body of work acompanied by title, date,
 media, and size, as well as a brief description of each piece. Biographies and statements
 are given when available. Our collection will be constantly expanding as more recent works
 and new artists are included. 
	
	The universality of Greco-Roman aesthetics plays a major part in Contemporary Classicism. The expression of clarity, harmony and restraint, as well as the drama and pathos of Greek mythology and literature in its understanding of the human psyche are the foundations for expression with contemporary classical artists. They may cover contemporary, fictional, or symbolic subject matter, or non-representational realms and concepts. In technique, a vigorous discipline is observed, whether the style is loose and spontaneous or studied and meticulous.
The great variety of artistic approaches flourishing under this appellation is testament to its vitality in this multifarious "Postmodern" Age.
	
 
 
 
 
 Works
 by Andree Descharnes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Works
 by Elsie Russell 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Works
 by Alfred Russell
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Works by
 Paul Gianfagna 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cultural
 Links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essay: Et in Arcadia
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essay: Still Life
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essay: Classical Figuration Today
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Screen
 Savers 
 
 
 
 
Sign our Guestbook!
See our Guestbook!
Net in Arcadia Email:
net.in.arcadia@parnasse.com
Curated by Elsie Russell
WWW programming by Jeff Harrington
Graphics and Layout by Elsie Russell and Jeff
Harrington
Artists Retain Copyright of their Individual Works
Texts and Net in Arcadia Logo © 1995 Elsie Russell and Jeff Harrington 
Other Pages at PARNASSE.COM
The Music of Jeff Harrington
Classical MP3 Listing
Classical MP3 Streaming Radio Listing
VRML Worlds
Visit Dr. Webowitz, the First On-Line Shrink!
net new music: a listing of new music on the net
