
Free Java Help --- Tutorials --- Introduction --- Variables
 
July 16 ,2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advertise | 
Feedback | 
Link To
Us | 
Legal | 
Links | 
Glossary
 | 
Privacy
 | 
BURST! Survey 
 
 
	
	 NeoProfile
	
	
NeoProfile is a new website by the makers of FreeJavaHelp. It enhances the capabilities
and powers of AOL Instant Messenger Profiles.
	 
	 Tutorials
	
	
We provide detailed yet easy to understand Java and JavaScript
tutorials which will speed along your learning process.
	 
	 Articles
	
	 
Our articles discuss common topics and questions about Java or JavaScript. Many
articles are written by the requests of users.
	 
	 Forums
	
	
Have a question which you need answered? Come to our forums and ask away! We'll answer
them to the best of our ability!
	 
	 Applets
	
	 
The applets section contains a variety of interesting applets with source code for studying or your
personal use.
	 
	 E-zine
	
	 
Our e-zine section is where we post previous issues of The FreeJavaHelp Reporter for you to read.
	 
	 Contribute
 
	
	 
The contribute section allows you to submit articles, tutorials, or other content to be posted on
Free Java Help.
	 
 
	
	
 
	
	
Variables 
 
 In programming, data is
kept using variables. For example, if I wanted to add two numbers together, I
might have a variable called one to hold the first number, a variable called
two to hold the second number, and a variable called sum to hold the sum of the
first and second number. A user could input the value of two number, have them
assigned to variables, and have the value of the sum of the variables be
assigned to the variable sum. For example, in Java, we might type
one+two=sum;
 A few things that you have to remember are that
you have to choose the right variable type. You cannot use a String to hold a
number. You cannot use an Integer to hold a number with a decimal. Also, the
same name cannot be used for more than one variable.
 Those of you who have taken any type of Algebra
course should not have any problem with this idea of variables. If you have not
programmed before, you may not be aware that there are different kinds of
variables. We refer to what kind of variable a variable is as its type (data
type). For example, a type of a variable could be an integer.
 In Java, variables are declared in the format
type variablename; . An example of this would be int hello; The
type would be int, and the variable name would be hello. Any time you wanted to
refer to this variable, you would simply have to use the name, hello. You only
need to declare the type once. The int data type refers to an integer that uses 32 bits.
 The long data type is used for an integer
that you know could be VERY long. It uses 64 bits. Only use long if you know
that int would be too small.
 If you are interested in using numbers that
include decimals, you need to use either float or double. A float
is a number that uses 32 bits and can be any real number. A double is a number
that uses 64 bits and can be any real number.
 Strings will probably be used just as much as any
of the other data types. The String data type is used for text. For
example, if I wanted the value of a variable to be "Java is fantastic", I would
have to use a string. Remember that when declaring a String, the S needs to be
capital. e.g. String test;
 A boolean is a data type that can only
hold two values, either true or false. Booleans are very useful. You will use
them a lot.
EXAMPLES OF DECLARING DIFFERENT VARIABLES:
int x;
long y;
float z;
double a;
String s;
boolean p;
 Notice how after each declaration is a semicolon
(;) . The semicolon is used to end all statements in Java. If you fail to
remember this, you will have many errors in your code. A statement can be a
variable declaration, performing a method, or just about anything. The
semicolon will be at the end of most lines in your code.
Tutorials Contents
 
 
Lessons in the Introduction Section 
 
Beginning
Requirements
Variables
Conditionals
Loops
Operators
Methods
 
 
 
Email
 
Username
Password
 sign up 
 
Search 
Search for:
Search:
Entire Document
Title Only
Match:
Any Terms
Exact Phrase
 
 
Partners 
NeoProfile
Webmaster Lane
Ivewon.com
Hitler Was Wrong
That was Random!
 
 
FreeJavaHelp E-Zine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2000 FreeJavaHelp.com . All
Rights Reserved.
