
User Interfaces that Swing: A Quick Start Guide
The JavaTM Tutorial
 
Start of Tutorial
>
Start of Trail
 
Search
Feedback Form
Examples Index
 
Trail: Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing
Lesson: User Interfaces that Swing: A Quick Start Guide
This lesson is a quick start guide to using
Swing components to build user interfaces. This lesson is built 
around several progressively complicated examples. 
 
Note: This material is covered in depth in the full Swing trail: 
Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing. This lesson is designed for readers who want to learn
the basics quickly by examining some simple examples. 
We cover many standard graphical user interface (GUI) components that 
the JavaTM 2 platform 
provides, such as buttons, labels, 
and text areas. The handling of events is also discussed, 
as are layout management and accessibility. 
Note: You can download all the examples (including images) used in this trail 
from the 
Example Index.
Overview of the Swing API
This page gives a quick overview of the history of the Swing 
package and how to compile and run Swing programs. 
Your First Swing Program
This small example has all the code that every Swing application 
must have.
Example Two: SwingApplication
This section takes you through the code for a small Swing application.
The topics covered include: look and feel, setting up buttons and labels, 
handling events, and adding borders. 
Example Three: CelsiusConverter
The third example, a program that converts a given temperature 
from Celsius to Fahrenheit, illustrates how to add HTML and icons
to components.
Example Four: LunarPhases
The fourth example covers how to set up multiple panels, 
compound borders, combo boxes, and how to load multiple images.
Example Five: VoteDialog
You can vote for your favorite political candidate in the final example,
VoteDialog. This application illustrates the use of radio 
buttons and dialogs.
Layout Management
This section discusses how to position the components in a container.
Threads and Swing
Thread issues are discussed in this section, including the "Single-Thread Rule."
Summary
A summary of important concepts covered in this section. 
Questions and Exercises
Try these questions and exercises to test what you've learned in this lesson.
 
Start of Tutorial
>
Start of Trail
 
Search
Feedback Form
Examples Index
 
Copyright
1995-2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
