
JADCentral : Technology Showcase : Crisp Wireless
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 Crisp Wireless
 
	 http://www.crispwireless.com 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 Description 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Crisp Wirelss is excited to be working within the field of Micro Application Development. We realize that tremendous value lies within having mobile clients empowered with robust applications that extend an enterprises present technical capital. Crisp Wireless has built the core application technology components that will transform your mobile device into a micro-pc. The mobile environmet holds tremendous promise, and Crisp Wireless is looking forward with eager anticipation to our contributions to its fruition.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 Contact Information 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 mike@logicchain.net
	 (212) 904-1850
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Press Releases 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2001-04-19
	 
	 
	 
	 LogicChain Presents at the Java Mobile Technology Conference
	 LAS VEGAS, NV - LogicChain, a leading developer of Micro Java mobile applications, today concluded two days of demonstrating their technology and presenting their views of the mobile industry at the first ever Java Mobile Technology conference. LogicChain Smart Sherpa, the first commercial product developed with the company's mLogic Engine, was the only J2ME application at the conference demonstrated on both the Palm and the new Motorola i85s, the first Java-compatible mobile phone in the U.S. SmartSherpa applies information management and data categorization tools to create customized asset mapping applications based on specific locations.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Case Studies 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2001-09-10
	 
	 
	 
	 Using the low-level GUI - Display Effects
	 In the first two articles we discussed the basics of images and the various ways of moving an image through the Canvas. In this article we will discuss the various effects that can be performed using an image. But before we jump into the effects, let's talk a little about timers; we'll need them to perform some of these effects
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 2001-08-30
	 
	 
	 
	 Taking Your App to Market
	 So you've built the newest killer J2ME application, and boy are you excited about the possibility of having your application downloaded over a large international operator's network. You can hear the cash register ringing as every teenager in the world downloads your app. This is what J2ME holds for the developer in the future, and ATG would like to be the distinguishing factor in your application's success.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Whitepapers 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Professional Needs Analysis
	 LogicChain helps companies identify, understand and anticipate the impact of mobile technology on their business practices and strategies. LogicChain provides companies with the services they need to successfully implement their mobile initiatives. By leveraging our insight of the wireless industry and Micro Java in particular, LogicChain can provide your company with a detailed needs analysis that clarifies how your company can bring life to your wireless initiatives. Our knowledge of the technology, coupled with our experience working with clients across many industries, affords us a unique perspective that enables us to help you shape your tactical and strategic wireless initiatives.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Micro Java Professional Services
	 As a premiere provider of Micro Java expertise and services, LogicChain has the tools to be your conduit to the mobile world. LogicChain offers a comprehensive suite of Professional Services tailored to each client's needs. Our experts can assist you through every stage of the project lifecycle, from concept through completion.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Micro Java Development Services
	 LogicChain Development Services help companies rapidly develop applications for smart devices using Micro Java technologies. Using our vast knowledge in Java and Micro Java technologies, LogicChain provides clients with a "one stop shop" for their mobile development needs. We provide clients with a complete set of development services aimed at rapidly deploying mobile applications using Micro Java. LogicChain services are tailored to the individual requirements of each client and emphasize active client participation throughout the project lifecycle, ensuring that the client's needs come first.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Implementing a Rich Content Creation Platform for Mobile Data
	 The Wireless Web is undergoing a transformation from a medium characterized by static, text-based information to one loaded with richly animated and internactive wireless content...
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 Products available in CodeCentral 	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 9-10-2001 
	 	
	 
	 
	 ColorKVM
	 The ColorKVM (Build 10, multi PDB) with a ROMized version of kAWT v0.9903 with support for 16 Bit colordepth on VISOR Prism. It is not necessary to add the kawt.pdb file to run the KawtSample or any other kAWT application.
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
