
JADCentral : JUGCentral
 	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	
	
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Silicon Valley JUG
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 Description 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 This virtual group will focus on being a developer's forum for using Java on the server side primarily and explore its use on handheld devices. I am aware that there are many discussion forums out there but I was hoping we could have members submit articles to other members of the forum for comment. Hopefully, all the members end up improving the use of the 
technolgy.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Contact Information 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 JUG page admin
	 Amish Shah 
	 amishsh@hotmail.com
	 
	 
	 JUG location
	 
 
	 
	 
	 California
	 
	 United States
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 JUG Members
	 
	 
	 	
	 	pierrebeau@hotmail.com, 
	 	
	 
	 	
	 	eric@reportmill.com, 
	 	
	 
	 	
	 	khurramwaheed@hotmail.com, 
	 	
	 
	 	
	 	srikanth.pv@geind.ge.com, 
	 	
	 
	 	
	 	julian_shen@hotmail.com
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 JUG Events 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Aug 8, 2001
	 
	 
at 7:00pm
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Modeling J2EE using UML and Rational Rose
	 The session will be focussed on Modelling J2EE Application using UML with Rational Rose. There will also be a demo on using Rational Rose following the presentation
	 
	 Location: Planet Mo'z Dining Room 
468 Ellis Street (Bldg. 22) 
Mountain View, CA
	 
	 For more information, contact: 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Links 	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Aug 8, 2001
	 
	 
	 
	 Rational
	 These guys came and spoke at our meeting
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Aug 6, 2001
	 
	 
	 
	 Appstream
	 This is an infrastructure group that sponsors our pizza
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Aug 3, 2001
	 
	 
	 
	 SV JUG
	 We have a sister site at this location
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 Aug 3, 2001
	 
	 
	 
	 Netscape
	 We all know what netscape is. They sponsor our meeting place.
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Forum 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Silicon Valley JUG
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Most recent post
	 Subject: Re: Does this really work?
	 From: vataa
	 When: 2002-04-18 10:42:55
	 
	 
	 3 total messages
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 JUGCentral
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 Most recent post
	 Subject: j2me
	 From: kelly brookes
	 When: 2002-07-05 08:55:07
	 
	 
	 16 total messages
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Silicon Valley JUG Membership 	 
	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 	To join Silicon Valley JUG you will first need to register as a JADCentral user. If you already
	 	have an account, please login on this page. 
	 	If you have not already registered, you can do so now and return to this page.
	 
	 	As a member you will be able post code items to the JUG and you will have the option of receiving email notification whenever new events, links or messages are posted to the JUG page.
	
	 
	 
	 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	 Member Contributed Code 	 
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	 	
	
	 	
	 
	 Date 
	 	
	 Description 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	 
	 8-21-2001 
	 	
	 
	 
	 ColorUp
	 With the picture that you specific, Color Up Java Applet can animate the color from full color to gray scale and/or gray scale to full color. Color Up and also can act as a link to other page.
You have full control on when to make the change. Color change can be make by:
- Mouse enter the picture
- Mouse exit the picture
- Mouse click on the picture
- control with JavaScript/VBScript
	 
	 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	 
 
 
 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	&#160 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 	Not a member? register
	 
	 	
	 
	 	
	
	
	 Already registered? 
	
	
	
	 	 
	 	 
 	
	
	 	 
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 Remember me 
	 	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 	
	 	
	 	Forgot your password?
	 	
	 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	 
	
	 
 
	
	
	 
	
	 
	 
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	
	 
	
	
	 	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	
	 
	
CODECENTRAL | FORUMS | NEWS CENTRAL | RESOURCES | TECH SHOWCASE | JUG CENTRAL | PRIVACY POLICY & DISCLAIMER
HOME | 
MY ACCOUNT | 
HELP | CONTACT US
 
 
