
Mars Rover
Mars Rover
Previous Updates:
- In 2003, NASA plans to launch two rovers to Mars.
- The Mars rovers will carry a sophisticated set of instruments and have far greater mobility and scientific capability than
the 1997 Mars Pathfinder Sojourner rover.
- It will take seven months to land on the Martian surface, which will be similar to that of the
Pathfinder spacecraft.
- The rovers are expected to give a virtual tour of the landing site. 
- The rovers will be able to travel almost as far in one
Martian day as the Sojourner rover did over its entire lifetime.
- The rover offers opportunities for discoveries about the Martian surface
at scales ranging from microscopic to that of gigantic boulders.
- One aspect of the Mars rover's mission is to determine
history of climate and water at a site or sites on Mars where
conditions may once have been warmer and wetter and thus
potentially favorable to life as we know it here on Earth.
- The exact landing site has not yet been chosen, but is
likely to be a location such as a former lakebed or channel
deposit -- a place where scientists believe there was once water.
Current Updates:
The traffic on Mars is expected to double in the near
future. NASA announced plans to launch two large scientific
rovers to the red planet in 2003, rather than the original plan
for just one.
Both Mars rovers, to be built, managed and operated by
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif., currently are
planned for launch on Delta II rockets from Cape Canaveral Air
Force Station, Fla. The first mission is targeted for May 22,
with the second launch slated for June 4. After a seven-and-a-
half month cruise, the first rover should enter Mars' atmosphere
January 2, 2004, with the second rover bouncing to a stop on the
Martian surface January 20.
The rovers will be exact duplicates, but that's where the
similarities end. Relatives of the highly successful 1997
Sojourner rover, these 150-kilogram (300-pound) mobile
laboratories may look and act alike, but they're going to
decidedly different locations.
Due to science and technology, we now have capability to explore planets other than ours in ways like on Star Trek. Two
rovers will be driving different regions of Mars at the
same time.
NASA has been studying the two-lander option. The launch was carefully weighed against the resource
requirements and schedule constraints.
The teams concluded that the rovers can be successfully developed and
launched to Mars. This two-pronged approach will broaden the horizons of space exploration.
"Mars is a beguiling place, and conducting a real mobile
field-geology mission is always better when there are multiple
perspectives," said Dr. Jim Garvin, Mars program scientist at
NASA Headquarters. However, the landing sites have yet to be
selected. "We are thinking about localities where there is
evidence of surface processes involving what we might call 'past'
water on Mars," Garvin said.
"This includes sites where we have today mineralogical
evidence that water may have produced unique chemical
fingerprints, as well as places where it seems likely water
'ponded' in closed depressions for enough time to modify the
regional geology," Garvin added.
During the next two to three years, engineers and scientists
will conduct an intensive search for potential touchdown sites.
Using the flood of data still coming in from Mars Global
Surveyor, and that expected starting in 2002 from the Mars 2001
Orbiter, scientists will search for compelling landing zones with
the fewest hazards and select the best candidates.
"The goal of both rovers will be to learn about ancient
water and climate on Mars," said Professor Steven Squyres,
Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., and principal investigator for
the rovers' Athena science package. "You can think of each rover
as a robotic field geologist, equipped to read the geologic
record at its landing site and to learn what the conditions were
like back when the rocks and soils there were formed."
Given the high priority NASA and the administration assign
to the space science program overall, and to the timely
exploration of Mars, the agency proposes that space science cover
any additional costs of the first rover mission, and that the
bulk of the cost for the second lander be reallocated from
programs outside Space Science.
For more information on Mars Missions, visit Missions to Mars
