
Javalobby Forums - "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 75056 Members! 
 This
 website is gratefully dedicated to Allan Chasanoff 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Forums
 | Links
 | 
 Jobs | Members
 Only 
 
 
 
 Member Login
 
 
 Become a Member 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 Email Address: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Password: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 Automatically
 Login
 
 
	 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOIN NOW, IT'S FREE!
 Not a member yet? Join right now and enjoy the many benefits of
 Javalobby membership.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Participate in our discussion forums
 
- Download free software and books
 
- Receive members-only discount offer
 
 
 
 
 
- Receive up-to-date info via our newsletter
 
- List your products/services in our links directory
 
- Enhance your career at JavaJobs.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Click
 here if you don't remember your password and want it mailed to you.
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
	 
	 
	
 
 
 "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 »
 Forums
 »
 Javalobby Frontpage
 
 
 
 
 35 replies on
 4 pages.
 Most recent reply:
 Apr 17, 2002 1:34 AM
 by
 
 Scott Hazel
 
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 Reply to this Topic
 
 
 
	 
	
 Post New Topic
 
 
 
 
	 
	
 Search Forum
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Previous Topic
 
 
 
	 
	
 Back to Topic List
 
 
 
 
 
 Next Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 [ Go to: « 1 2 3 4 ] 
 
 
 Print
 Friendly Format | Switch
 to map view format 
 
 Email
 Thread to a Friend 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Steve Benigan
 
 
 
 Posts: 62
 
 
 Registered: Feb, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: .. and by the way
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 3, 2002 12:45 PM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No no, of course not. I know there are people developing java on the mac. I personally do not know any of them but I know a lot of people who would like to develop on the mac but are too afraid that apple is doing the same old song and dance.
The 4 people that you know, did they switch to Apple or were they already using it. What kind of development do they do?
I was working for a client several years ago who said specifically that they didn't care what I developed on. They gave me free reign on my corporate provided computers and allowed me to use my own as well (this is very rare for onsite work). So I brought in a mac and it didn't cut it. The same would be true today b/c of my work with 1.4.
Oh and by the way, MoneyDance looks like a decent app... kind of strange looking UI but I'm glad that it's a true crossplatform application.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	John Bridges
 
 
 
 Posts: 55
 
 
 Registered: Sep, 1997
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 5, 2002 4:16 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Not entirely unfair Eddie.
As of 1.3.1 Sun has a single source base for Solaris/NT/Linux.
I guess the hardest thing will be to incorporate the low-level integration with the OSX front end.
JB
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Mark J
 
 
 
 Posts: 160
 
 
 Registered: Jan, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: they are similar but different
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 5, 2002 7:30 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Maybe, but no small, independent, competitive groups of professionals has created something like Java (as far as I know?). The fact is Sun did create Java! It is much easier to look at somebody else's creation and say I (or somebody else) could create something like or even better than it, than to actually create it in the first place.
There have been plenty of languages very similar to Java (or better) over the last two decades. Some that come to mind are Oberon, Turing, Modula-3, Eiffel, Sather, and Object Pascal. Many of those have good GUI toolkits, runtime safety, and other nice features.
The fact that Java caught on was kind of a fluke. In part, Java simply rode the Internet wave, and it was a better alternative to JavaScript for client-side logic. And it was backed by a big company other than Microsoft.
I was there when a couple of big a companies made the decision to go to Java, and the people in the room never said "oh, wow, this is great new technology", they said "oh, well, it's not exactly state of the art, but we can patch up its worst problems, and if we all rally around this one, we can beat Microsoft; in any case, it's better than C++".
What is stopping entities other than Sun creating competing Java API's? Nothing?
You can create competing APIs, but there are no good mechanisms for getting them onto the client. Java is no different from Windows here: something bad that's bundled by the market leader will usually beat anything third party.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Alex Prayle
 
 
 
 Posts: 134
 
 
 From: UK
 
 Registered: Apr, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: they are similar but different
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 5, 2002 9:24 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 There have been plenty of languages very similar to Java (or better) over the last two decades. Some that come to mind are Oberon, Turing, Modula-3, Eiffel, Sather, and Object Pascal. Many of those have good GUI toolkits, runtime safety, and other nice features.
These languages have some technical similarities, but they are not similar in the way Java has gained widespread use in so many areas of computing. Do any of these 'similar' languages have the breadth of standard APIs that Java has? 
The fact that Java caught on was kind of a fluke. In part, Java simply rode the Internet wave, and it was a better alternative to JavaScript for client-side logic. And it was backed by a big company other than Microsoft.
So why didn't any of these existing languages catch the Internet wave? I think it is because Java is simply better overall, Java is more than just a language. I thought JavaScript more popular for web client side logic than Java. The problem is there are no standard Java APIs that integrate very well with the rest of the web page / web browser (but thats another topic that has been discussed before); Applets are given a rectangle of the web page and browser/web page integration doesn't go much further than opening other documents. 
You can create competing APIs, but there are no good mechanisms for getting them onto the client. Java is no different from Windows here: something bad that's bundled by the market leader will usually beat anything third party.
These competing APIs are licensed by developers not end users. They get on the client in the same way as the rest of these developer's application (i.e. downloaded or via CD). What other technology makes it easier to get competing APIs onto the client and how?
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	David Boydston
 
 
 
 Posts: 1
 
 
 Registered: Apr, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: Java on the client, same as it ever was
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 16, 2002 8:58 PM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I don't disagree that Sun need some art lessons, however... You don't mention if you have tryed the Apple implementation, or if your just posting an 'aged' opinion.
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
	Scott Hazel
 
 
 
 Posts: 1
 
 
 Registered: Mar, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Re: "Apple, Sun Brew Closer Java Ties"
 
 
 
 
 
 Posted: Apr 17, 2002 1:34 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reply
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 One of the markets that Apple is pursuing, outside of the creative markets, is the bio-sciences, research arenas -- particularly the genetic sciences, drug/pharmacy sciences -- Macs have been used in these markets for their ability to create visualizations easily, and on a cheap (compared to a Sun box) platform -- though recently (last 7+ years?) Windows has been steadily eroding the formally Mac bastion, both with the enticement of a better OS in the form of NT/Win2K, compared to Mac OS 8.x/9.x, and OK visualization tools that are getting better.
Now that Apple has OSX, it is refocusing effort back into the sciences markets, touting the Unix underpinnings, QuickTime and other authoring tools for creating and distributing visualizations.
Methinks that Java is also part of the plan, too -- scientific markets use quite a bit of Sun and other Unix boxen, have the need for a coding environment that can enable the rapid building of simple apps, interfacing to other hardware tools and environments, ease of exporting datas to visual presentations with minimum of fuss -- Java on Apple's OSX could be an answer.
Regarding why Apple has not released JDK 1.4 for OSX, read following explanation.
---------------------------------
http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/jw-01-2002/jw-0118-macworld_p.html
Macworld: Java Is Alive And Well On The Mac 
Mac OS X Gives Java Developers Unprecedented Opportunities
The JDK 1.4 Debate 
Developers continue to argue over Java 1.4 on Mac OS X. On the one hand, Apple delivers a solid implementation of the latest released version of Java to all Mac OS X users. Compared to the Java support on the Windows platform, Apple provides solid "out-of-the-box" support for Java. On the other hand, Java developers don't have access to beta releases, while Windows users have had access to various betas of Java 1.4 for nine months now. Mac-centric developers won't have access to Java 1.4 until Apple provides it. Allen Denison, Apple's Java product manager, expects that Java 1.4 on Mac OS X might be available by the Worldwide Developers Conference in early May. Denison said that Apple will also provide an easy way for developers to switch JVMs so that they can run and test in 1.4 or 1.3.1, at least until 1.4 is released to the general public. 
Blake Stone added that Borland strongly urges Apple to quickly release 1.4. Denison responded that many developers feel as strongly that Apple should stay with 1.3.1. Most developers seem to just want to know what and when. Java developers have tried to make the point that they should be considered in this venture. In order to build software, they need to know when Apple will support the platform on which the software runs. Other developers argue that since Java 1.4 isn't final, there's no reason for Apple to try to engineer a moving target. In any case, Denison assured the audience that much of the work for Java 1.4 has been done, and, once Sun Microsystems goes final with it, Apple can better plan. He explained that Java 1.3 was Apple's first Java release on Mac OS X , so Apple has focused its resources on making the 1.3 implementation solid. 
Although Apple has made significant commitments to Java, the company has limited resources. Apple, when it comes to Java, also suffers from lack of attention. Sun continues to put resources into bringing Java to the Windows platform. Apple includes a good implementation of Java in their OS and could use more help from Sun in getting it out the door more quickly. Sun has actually moved in the opposite direction by discontinuing some of the support it had given to Apple in the past. For example, Sun discontinued its Java engineers who physically worked at Apple late last year. As Sun builds alliances and decides what to support, it seems that Mac OS X would be a natural choice. For Apple's part, Denison feels that Apple's relationship with Sun is getting stronger.
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This topic has 35 replies
 on 4 pages
 [
 «
 |
 1 
 2 
 3 
 4
 ]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Previous Topic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Top
 of the page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Next Topic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Javalobby
 discussion forums
 powered by
 Jive 
 Forums 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About 
 Us | Volunteers Wanted | Terms 
 of Use | Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
