
We had our baby!!!
 
We had our baby!!!
 
For the next several months, we'll be sharing our progress with our new rugrat. Her name is Kallie Alice. She was born at 12:45pm on Friday, June 23, 2000. She weighed in at 8 lbs. 2 oz. and was 21 in. long.
Here's the little bundle of joy. As you can see, all we got was her face (at the time of this picture, Kallie was 17 weeks). We used to play games with her, like talking to Kallie through Sherrie's stomach. We even tried shining a flashlight on Sherrie's stomach to see if Kallie would turn towards the light. She responded well to the games we played.
We're happy now. At least we know she is healthy. She was moving the whole time. That was probably because of all the games we played. Maybe she's an over-active child. It's too soon to tell. We definitely know that she's a little lovergirl. Now she smiles, coos, babbles, and, with a little help, can stand momentarily.
Here's what you've been waiting for! The first picture of Kallie. This is her in her bouncy chair. This isn't the only pictures we have, there just isn't enough time in a day to accomplish everything that needs to get done and keep up on other things. So, in the meantime, please be patient.
At the time this picture was taken, Kallie was 10 days old. She's a very happy little girl. Keep checking back. We'll have more pictures, more updates, and more things we want to share in the months to follow. One can never know, with Lloyd's web development background, there might even be something interactive.
 
Now, this is Kallie at six months. She's been able to sit on her own for about 2
Here are some helpful sites...
iBaby.com - Everything for baby, maternity, gifts, toys, and nursery. Check out the latest car seats and strollers; learn more about products for nursing and feeding, diapering and bathing, activities and play; find music, books, and videos; plus other issues like: safety, health, multiples, clothes, and carriers. Just for fun, take a look at their name finder, pregnancy calendar, or subscribe to their news letter.
 
If you would like to find more information on babies, just enter your topic below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 Search by: 
 
 
 Keyword
 Title
 Author
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C++ Tutorial | Extras | Family | Graphics | Honeymoon | Java Tutorial | JavaScript Tutorial | Links | 
Home | Computer Resource Center | Soccer | Space Exploration | HTML Tutorial
